midland HELICOPTER 
HOSTS ALIGN MR25 E 


day 2017 Issue 10 

rotorworld.co.uk 


Prattise When 
You Want 

VelociDrone 
simulator review 


Carbon Dating 

The perfect match for 
a Blade Theory X 


Oil’s foldable 
drone sets a 
new standard 


1 

/ 1 

II 1 

J 

1 J g 

jjf 

rfl 

V ~ 

■Vv / 1 

f/rr 





TOY FAIR TIME 


WE FIND ALL THE COOL 
NEW STUFF AT NUREMBERG 


LU 

p 

_l 


h 

- 

h 

J 

o 

a 

J 

o 

□ 

| 


III 

Dror 

II 1 

leZor 

mi 

ieC 

IK 

D 

III! 

£4.99 

III 04 




1 1 




CD 

772057 

175000 













Our extremely durable HDPE 
racing, freestyle and sport frames 
[in B colour combinations] and new 
full carbon models are available from 
resellers World Wide 


For further details check out www.ragg-e.co.uk or join our Facebook page 
www.facebook.com/Raggedesigns and become part of the RaGG-e family 













Built-in 720p HO camera 


flight Control fadsatBlow Power Fails ale 


lx H507A BC Quadcopter 


CM L PRODUCTS ARE AVAILABLE IN ALL GOOD MODEL &amp; HOBBY SHOPS. CHECK OUR WEBSITE FOR FULL DETAILS 

WWW.CMLaiSTRiaUTiaH.Ca.UK 


A H507A RC QUADCOPTBt 


flight lime: 9 minutes 
Battery- 7.6V 550mAh U-Po 
Charging nme- ZOO minutes 
Distance- 300 meters! with Relay) 

APP Compatible Orbiting functional Waypoints 
Real time fPV Phota'Vldeo 
Careless Motors 


HbO/A HubsanX4 Star Pro Quadcopter 


UBSAN 


Controllable from an App on your phone or tablet 


• WIFI Real Time Video Transmission 

• Waypoint flight (settable waypoint and altitude) 

• One key takeoll 

• Follow me mode 

• Circumvotant mode 

• Headless mode 

• Gravity sensor 

• Vldeo.photo 


PACKAGE INCLUDES: 


USER FRIENDLY FUNCTIONS 


One Key to Take off 


Automatic Hover 


THE APP WAYPOINT FUNCTION 

After take off, simply select your destination on the screen and the copter will fly 
directly to the selected point. Easy control means more content and time to enjoy 
the flight experience. Smooth flight for proffessional 
and high resolution aeroial shots. 4 


FEATURES: 

• Built in 720P HD camera is tuned to capture stunning pictures and videos from the sky. 

• With the App Waypoint Function, the X4 Star Pro is easy to control lor more time to relax 
and capture those aerial shots. 

• Built-in GPS (universal version) positioning system, gives accurate positioning location 
lor the perfect advanced follower. 

• The Follow Me function turns the X4 Star Pro into your personal mobile photographer and 
cameraman. 

• Headless mode, the perlect setting for beginners. 

• The 550m Ah capacity battery provides 10 minutes of flight from a single charge. 


IMMERSIVE REAL-TIME FPV 

Connect to your aircraft via a phone or 
tablet WiFi connection and gain access 
to an unforgettableexperience. See the 
World through the drone’s perspective 
in real-time. 


Smart Return 




App Control Follow Me 10 mm Right Time Wayponts Orbiting Mode 720PHD 


Wifi FPV Automatic Takeoff One Key Return FtyM Control FaM-safe Lon Pouer Fail-safe Headless Mode 












Drone 

Direction 

T he market has seen a lot of change and maybe some genres of the drone 
market have had their day, like we have seen with other RC categories like 
contra-rotating helis. About four years ago the Nuremberg Toy Fair was 
swamped by small indoor helicopters that featured two sets of blades that 
rotated in opposite directions. This new heli category broke new ground by 
being cheap to buy, stable and could be flown by all abilities. Many friends and family 
flew their first heli this way - something that they never thought was possible do to the 
presumed level of technical difficulty and skill requirement. 

Drones have gone the same way and now you can pick up a generic multi-rotor 
model at the local market, supermarket or down the high street. Sadly these are more 
like toys and are priced accordingly. They don't have the features that the buyer may 
perceive them to have or if they do, they certainly don't work as well as a hobby- 
grade product. So it's important that the magazine is able to educate those who truly 
want to invest time and money into the hobby of how best to spend it. 

Nowadays you can pretty much place a drone manufacturers product into one of 
three main sectors. Firstly we have the recreational market or those who buy one with 
the sole intention of having some flying fun. The second class is the rapid growth of 
FPV racing and this is where the sector is gaining greater following as people move 
on from an entry-level model or migrate from helis or racing RC cars. Finally there 
are the professional drones for commercial use so you can get paid to fly; aerial 
photography and filming, or surveying work to name just a couple. 

As you can see from a typical issue of Drone Zone, we cover all of these aspects so 
have a broad appeal to the whole of the hobby and industry. We are forever trying 
to improve the magazine and come up with new ideas and features. I hope that you 
enjoy this issue and as always would welcome any thoughts you have for the future... 



Bm 


Matt Benfield , Editor 


,u, l k Mi 


lace to recreation , q 

hnical to first-timer 
Drone Zone has you 
covered..." 






PUBLISHER 

Doolittle Media Ltd 
Doolittle Mill, Doolittle Lane 
Totternhoe, Beds, LU6 I QX 
Tel: 01 525 222573 
Fax: 0 1 525 222574 

EDITOR 

Matt Benfield 
matt@doolittlemedia.com 

DESIGN 

Alex Hall 
Peter Hutchinson 

ADVERTISING MANAGER 

Sean Leslie 
Tel: 01 525 222573 
sean@do o I ittl em ed i a. co m 

DISTRIBUTION 

Seymour Distribution 
2 East Poultry Avenue 
London, ECIA9PT 
Tel: 020 7429 4000 

NEWSTRADE 

Select Publisher Services 
3 East Avenue 
Bournemouth, BH3 7BW 
Tel: 01 202 586848 
tim@selectps.com 

No part of this publication may be copied or 
reproduced in any! form whatsoever without 
written consent from the publisherThis r 
includes the scanning and re-use of 
photographic or written material on the 
internet, whetherpbr commercial purposes 
or otherwise, photocopying and information 
retrieval systems. 

The publishers cannot be held legally 
responsible for any errors in the content of 
Drone Zone magazine, nor are they liable for 
any loss resulting from such errors, including 
negligence. Readers place reliance on the 
information contained within at their own risk. 

DOOLITTLE 


MEDIA 


© DOOLITTLE MEDIA 20 1 7 





10 Time To Build 

Out not such a newbie drone flyer Shaun Taylor decides its time to up his 
game and begins his build of a custom FPV racer. 

14 Nuremberg Toy Fair 

All the major players from the drone market were out in force at the 
annual Nuremberg Toy Fair in Germany, and naturally Drone Zone were 
in attendance to see all the new products from the big and established 
brands, through to the newer ones aiming to break in to the market... 

28 Practise at Home 

With the new VelociDrone simulator, not only can you get some flying time 
in at home, but also it's a great tool for learning new skills and avoiding 
those costly breakages. 

34 Through the lens 

The Hubsan H502E X4 Desire is on our centre spread this issue. Priced at 
under£120, the GPS-enabled model is feature packed, benefitting from 
a 720P HD camera, six-axis gyro and return-to-home function amongst 
others. 

36 Team RGB 

People get into drones for many different reasons. Take someone from 
the RC industry, a professional photographer and a senior software 
developer, add a common interest of drones and what you have is Team 
RGB. 

40 The MR25 Challenge 

The first UK version of the Align Fun Fly took place at the Midland 
Helicopter Club ably supported by 360 RC Technologies that saw Align 
MR25 drones take the sky for a day of fun and frolics. 

48 DZ Visits... 

Flying Drones is one of DJI's UK distributors and a great place to for any 
drone geek. Tom Stacey headed out to rural Essex to meet David Taub, the 
man behind the company. 


Reviews 


DJI Mavic Pro 

This product is biggest shock to the drone market since the original DJI 
Phantom, but while the aforementioned history-defining model took some 
three generations to own the space, the Mavic Pro seems to have hit the 
target immediately. 

Blade Theory X 

The Theory X line-up offers a choice of frame sizes as a basis for a custom 
built FPV racing quad build. Based on a 4mm carbon fibre frame, we 
opted for the most popular 1 95 model for our review that accepts a 5-inch 
prop. 

Hubsan H502E X4 Desire 

The Hubsan range covers a huge spectrum from toy mini quads through 
to professional, high-end photography drones. This issue sees us focus 
on latest model that features a built-in 720P HD camera, return-to-home 
mode, built in GPS and much more. 


Insight 


6 Front Page 

Breaking news stories from the world of drones, multi-copters and UAVs 

26 What's New 

The latest new drones, products and accessories launched for this growing 
market. 

62 Buyer's Guide 

Our comprehensive listing of available multi-copters in all classes. 

66 Contacts &amp; Info 

Information and contacts that will help you get the most from your drones. 


Features 


58 Flyduino KISS FC 

Shaun Garrity gets his hands on the latest KISS flight controller from 
Flyduino designed by Felix Niessen to see if all the talk of it being "super 
simple" really are true. 



LATEST NEWS 


FRONT PAGE 



EHANGTO START PASSENGER 


DRONE PLANS IN DUBAI 


Images courtesy 

REPORTS STATE THAT DUBAI WILL SEETHE FIRST PASSENGER DRONES IN of https://phys.org 


OPERATION THIS JULY USING THE CHINESE EHANG 184 MODEL 

E hang's 1 84 passenger carrying drone will begin "regular operations" in Dubai from July, according to their head of the city's Roads and Transportation Agency. Drone 
Zone featured the 1 84 back in issue 06 with the number referencing one passenger eight props and four arms/motors. The Chinese manufacturer has already made 
a number of test flights and will be capable of carrying up to 1 00kg for up to 30-minutes, at speeds of up to 1 60kph and for 50km on a single charge. Authorities say 
that it will be operated typically at 1 OOkph. Inside the cockpit the passenger will select a destination from a touch screen leaving the drone to do all the rest as it flown 
via autopilot by a command centre, according to a video released by the government agency. The Dubai Civil Aviation Authority had examined the vehicle that will be 
controlled using the 4G-phone network. 

The big question though is will this be a viable alternative to a city that is clogged up with cars and has seen them build the world's longest driverless metro line. 

The Associated Press published a statement by Mr al-Tayer saying, "This is not only a model. We have actually experimented with this vehicle flying in Dubai's skies." An 
example of the 1 84 was displayed during the second day of the World Government Summit in Dubai, mocked up as a Dubai Drone Taxi. 

The city of Dubai is no stranger to investing in future technologies as back in October 2016 they signed a deal with Los Angeles-based Hyperloop One to study the potential 
for building a hyperloop line between the cities of Dubai and the capital Abu Dhabi. A hyperloop has levitating pods powered by electricity and magnetism that hurtle through 
low-friction pipes at a top speed of 1220kph. 

The news from Dubai comes as French plane maker Airbus will begin testing flying taxis this year. The company formed a division called Urban Air Mobility in 2016 to 
explore concepts such as a vehicle to transport individuals or a helicopter-style vehicle that can carry multiple passengers. 


IDRA INSURANCE FOR DRONE PILOTS 

The International Drone Racing Association (IDRA) will launch the first primary 
UAV Aircraft Liability Insurance policy to cover drone pilots worldwide. 

Included with the membership service, each IDRA member will be insured, 
with a US$1 ,000,000 UAV Liability coverage limit including operations for 
Recreational Use, UAS training for competitions, and racing/competitions around the world. 

"Since 2015, we hove wanted to offer memberships to the association; however ; it was a necessity to 
ensure that our memberships carried value and were useful for the member ;" said Justin Haggerty, the 
Founder and CEO of IDRA. "An IDRA member should be able to explain why he or she is a member ; even 
if it is free. It was clear that our first membership service should be a primary liability-insurance to drone 
pilots around the world. We worked hard to find the right insurance provider and underwriter that supported 
our goal to offer the lowest possible cost in respect to the designed policy. In short ; our goal was achieved. 
The IDRA team and I are excited to provide UAV Aircraft Liability insurance to protect our members as we 
continue to grow the drone community. " 

To lower costs for annual memberships and have a policy that best fits the individual's needs, there 
are three categories of memberships, determined by the quantity of drones owned and to be insured. It is 
important to state that this IDRA Insurance Policy does not cover the commercial use of drones, only to fly 
recreationally, train for competitions and compete in events. In the insurance industry, commercial drone 
policies are designed on an individual basis to correlate with the risk associated with the commercial 
operation, such as commercial aerial photography. 

"We want to establish a culture of safety and compliance within the drone community/' said Justin 
Haggerty, the Founder and CEO of IDRA. "We believe that IDRA's insurance and membership service will 
help achieve that goal. Auto insurance is the same way a driver who runs a red light will not be covered for 
liabilities , because he or she failed to comply with traffic safety laws and regulations." 




DRONES AT THE 
SUPER BOWL 

In case you didn't stay up until the early hours, here's how 
Intel's 'Shooting Star' drones lit up Lady Gaga's half-time 
Super Bowl performance. Although if you're wondering 
how they negated all those legal hurdles, this was a pre- 
recorded segment ahead of the 'live' footage. Some 300 
drones were used to create the American flag on one of 
the biggest nights for television audiences and you can 
watch the video on YouTube at https://goo.gl/X622fQ 


DroneZone 


rotoruuorld.co.uk 






MOZAMBIQUE 
PLANE DAMAGE 
WAS NOT 
CAUSED BY A 
DRONE 

INACCURATE REPORTING ONCE AGAIN 
ASA DRONE IS INCORRECTLY BLAMED 
FOR DAMAGE TO A BOEING 737 

The mainstream press recently ran the news that a 
drone strike had caused damage to a passenger jet in 
Mozambique. Since then, it has been found out that it 
wasn't a drone that caused extensive damage to the 
radome. The Boeing 737-700 was descending at the 
time on a internal domestic flight from Maputo to Tete 
in early January. According to reports there was a 
loud bang and based on what was clearly a brief and 
inadequate investigation that the damage was caused 
by a collision with a drone. This was backed up by the 
theory that several nearby mining companies operate 
large industrial drones that could have possibly caused 
such damage. A bird strike was also eliminated as 
there was an absence of feathers or blood. 

The AV Herald website published an update on their 
website that stated: 

"On Jan 10 2017 Mozambique's Civil Aviation 
Authority reported that they concluded the radome most 
probably failed as result of a structural failure caused by 
air flow pressure , contributing factors probably were a 
defective installation of the radome and inspection of the 
ribs." They also said that, "A foreign object damage was 
ruled out." 

This is yet another case of a drone being initially 
blamed for an incident, then after more investigation the 
truth being realised. This has been highlighted in recent 
months when there was extensive media coverage 
about a drone flying very close to a plane near 
Heathrow that turned out to be a plastic bag. 


AMAZON'S PRIME AIR DRONE DELIVERS 

VIDEO SHOWS THE CRAFTTAKING OFF FROM A WAREHOUSE AND MAKING 
THE FLIGHTTO DELIVERTHE FIRST PACKAGETO A CUSTOMER IN A GARDEN 

Online shopping giant Amazon has announced it has successfully delivered its first package to a customer 
using a drone. The company released a video showing the drone taking off from a warehouse and flying 
below 400ft over fields to deliver the package outside his home. Amazon chief executive Jeff Bezos tweeted: 
" first ever #AmazonPrimeAir customer delivery is in the books. 1 3 min — click to delivery." 

Amazon plans to expand the trial to dozens of people living within several miles of the warehouse and 
then extend it to hundreds more users in the future. 

It said: "Prime Air has great potential to enhance the services we already 
provide to millions of customers by providing rapid parcel delivery that will 
also increase the overall safety and efficiency of the transportation system. " 

In a world first for the company, the drone drop contained a bag 
of popcorn and an Amazon Fire TV stick. The fully autonomous craft 
requires no human piloting and under Amazon's Prime Air service, the 

company aims to make deliveries in 30-minutes or less. Packages must weigh 2.27kg or less and can only 
be delivered during the day and in clear weather. 

You can check out the video at https://goo.gl/eba50C 




GOPRO KARMA TO 
RE-LAUNCH THIS YEAR 


Following a recall of the Karma model in 201 6, GoPro have completed testing and will re-launch the model 
in 201 7 in a statement made at the annual Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in the USA. This is great to hear 
after the company was forced to recall of all units from the market last November following a "small number of 
instances of power loss due to a mechanical issue related to securing the drone's battery". GoPro says it is now 
completing testing, which was one of the most heavily anticipated gadgets of 2016. 


GOVERNMENT CONSULTATION REGARDING DRONE SAFETY 


Whether you love or hate drones, we urge 
you to look at our government's consultation 
questions regarding drone safety for 'leisure' 
users (small drones) on their website www. 
gov.uk 

It is very easy to complete and you do not 
need qualifications of any kind. It is open to 
every member of the public and you do not 
have to be a drone user. The deadline is 1 5 
March to respond and you must enter your 
name and e-mail address. For a complete 


novice this will take you around 1 5 minutes. 

Currently users of small drones are 
unregistered in the UK and there is no 
way to find who is responsible when they 
are being used in the wrong way and in 
the wrong areas. This is our chance to 
participate with proposed changes to the 
few existing drone laws. 

One of our readers kindly got in touch 
and offered the following feedback: 

"The bottom of the screen has the "Respond 


Online" choice , but I would advise going 
to page 50 of the first document called 
"Unlocking the UKs high tech economy... " as 
it lists a summary of the relevant questions. 
After reading these you have a choice as to 
whether you participate or not. Pages 1-49 
contain lots of drone information , which for 
me a non-drone user ; found very interesting." 

Thanks to Ann Paterson for this insight. 

To go to the article type in https:/ /goo. 
gl/6N0h3j into your Internet browser. 



DroneZone 


rotoruuorld.co.uk 




LATEST NEWS 



CONN EX FALCORE 


AFTER LAUNCHING THEIR PROSIGHT HD SYSTEM, 
CONNEXARE CHANGING DIRECTION AND WILL 
BE LOOKING TO RELEASE AN FPV RACING DRONE 

The thrilling world of FPV racing is rapidly growing through 
mainstream media coverage and TV. But Connex feels that so far 
this sport was in reach only for professionals. "Those who are 
willing to invest weeks and months of practice with many drones 
destroyed along the way to reach the super skills required to race." 

With their Falcore they hope to change that. The Falcore is an 
FPV racing drone designed from ground up to help expose drone 
racing to everyone. It allows novice pilots to fly and race right out 
of the box, and with a switch of a button turn the Falcore into an 
aggressive, ultra-fast, ultra-durable racing drone. 

Based on a carbon fibre tubular frame, this is designed to protect 
all electronics components, providing crash resistant strength. 

Flexible motor arm joints can dislocate momentarily during an 
impact to protect drone from damage. 

Falcore s world first patented "SHIELD mode" allows anyone to 
race from day one. This mode uses sonar and barometer sensors 
to automatically maintain flight altitude, and coordinates turning to 
allow flying using a single stick of the remote. 

Each Falcore is Ready-To-Fly and comes with built in ProSight 
HD video link and a mounted video receiver. Also included in the 
package also an easy release battery, chargers, spare propellers 
and even a special tool for easy prop replacement and basic 
maintenance. 

Here are some of the standout features of the Falcore: 

- Stop &amp; Land button automatically grants pros and beginners with 
a soft landing 

- Detachable prop-guards are available as accessories for indoor 
racing or extra prop protection 

- Motors arms can be quickly removed for storing in a small 
backpack without the need for any tools 

- Compatible with several existing XT60 4S batteries 

- F3-based flight control, compatible with CleanFlight configurator 

- Factory-tuned locked-in PID set-up and super sharp Aero mode 



Image courtesy of www.helicomicro.com 


PARROT MAKES DRONE 
DIVISION LAY-OFFS 



After a disappointing performance over the Christmas 
holidays, French drone manufacturer Parrot have 
announced that some 290 employees will be made 
redundant in their UAV division - this is approximately 
33 per cent of the staff in this sector. The decision is in 
reaction to the news that sales were down by some 1 5 per 
cent of their projected final quarter figures. 

The consumer drone market is a tough one at present 
and many place the blame on the slim profit margins from 
the products. Experts believe that Parrot will move away 
from the toy market despite releasing the Mambo and 
Swing back in late 201 6 and will focus on platforms like 
the Bebop and Disco that sit in between the hobbyist and 
commercial sectors. 

It has been a tough time for some big drone brands and 
follows similar news from both GoPro and 3D Robotics, as 
claims are made that that these and others are struggling 
to compete alongside global giant DJI from China. 


LANDSCAPEPRO SOFTWARE 
- TRY BEFORE YOU BUY! 

The team from LandscapePro got in touch with us about their image software that they claim, "Can 
give your pictures that "wow factor" for under £30!" LandscapePro is an award-winning quick and 
easy way to enhance landscape pictures. Using intelligent selection controls it cleverly adapts 
features in a photo, allowing you to get dramatic results with aerial landscapes. According to 
LandscapePro, " This means touch-up and creative effects that would take hours in Photoshop can be 
achieved in one or two minutes , with no technical skill required. " 

For professional photographers, the software allows you to add clouds or colour, change lighting 
from dawn to dusk with many other enhancements available to increase their potential reach. 

And you can now download a free trial. 

Prices start from under £30 with a standalone 
version or the Studio version that handles RAW 
and runs as a Photoshop plug in. Buy quoting 
code RCDZ174 Drone Zone readers can enjoy 
an additional 10 per cent discount. 

For more information check out 
www. landscapepro.pics 



DroneZone 


rotorwortd.co.uk 






LILY DRONE COMPANY 
WINDS UP 

THE CROWD-SOURCED ACTION SELFIE 
DRONE COMPANYWINDS UP DESPITE 
HUGE FINANCIAL INVESTMENT 

First shown off in 2013, the Lily Drone was a product that 
appealed to established enthusiasts as well as the general 
public. And clearly they bought into that by signing up and 
pre-ordering one! Founders Antoine Balaresque and Henry 
Bradlow came up with the idea of a drone that was simple 
to use and could take video. They also wanted Lily to hover 
when thrown into the air and automatically follow you. But 
some four years down the line and the product has failed 
to get off the ground and now Lily will be refunding those 
who paid up. According to a source, Lily Robotics received 
$34 million in pre-orders - around 60,000 customers - and 
$15 million from crowd funding, and yet was unable to 
get it to market. It also appears the company were being 
sued by the San Francisco district attorney's office as 
according to the SF Gate website, the DA's office has been 
conducting a "months-long investigation" into the Lily Drone 
that came to some harsh conclusions. Chief among them: 
that Lily Robotics "lured" prospective customers by creating 
a promotional video using "[a] much more expensive, 
professional camera drone that requires two people to 
operate." 

Lily's founders released the following e-mail statement to 
their customers: 

"Antoine and Henry here from the Lily team. When Lily set 
out on the journey to create a flying camera over three years 
ago , we were determined to develop and deliver a product 
that would exceed your expectations. 

In the past year, the Lily family has had many ups and 
downs. We have been delighted by the steady advancements 
in the quality of our product and have received great 
feedback from our Beta program. At the same time , we 
have been racing against a clock of ever-diminishing funds. 
Over the past few months , we have tried to secure financing 
in order to unlock our manufacturing line and ship our first 
units - but have been unable to do this. As a result , we are 
deeply saddened to say that we are planning to wind down 
the company and offer refunds to customers. 

We want to thank you for sticking with us and believing 
in us during this time. Our community was the drive that kept 
us going even as circumstances became more and more 
difficult. Your encouraging words through our forums and in 
your emails gave us hope and the energy we needed to keep 
fighting. 

Before we sign off, we want to thank all the people who 
have worked at Lily, who have partnered with us, and who 
have invested in us. Thank you for giving your all, nights , 
weekends and holidays, in the effort to deliver a great 
product. 

After so much hard work, we are sad to see this adventure 
come to an end. We are very sorry and disappointed that 
we will not be able to deliver your flying camera, and are 
incredibly grateful for your support as a pre-order customer. 
Thank you for believing in our vision and giving us the 
opportunity to get this far. We hope our contribution will help 
pave the way for the exciting future of our industry." 

Sometimes it seems things are just too good to be true... 


STICKMOVER - FEEL IT TRY IT, FLY IT 



STICKMOVER CLAIMSTO BE 
THE EASY WAY TO IMPROVE 
YOUR RC FLYING SKILLS. 
THE NEWTRAININGTOOL 
TO MASTER 3D FLYING 
BY WATCHING ARTISTIC 
MANOEUVRES AND FEELING 
BYTOUCH HOWTO USE 
THE CONTROL STICKS 


AVIrem GmbH based in Ostringen, southern Germany started a crowd funding campaign on 15 
February 2017 to finance the first production run of the newly developed StickMover. This is designed 
as a tool for everyone to learn complex 3D moves. Many of us have watched masters in 3D flying 
perform their spectacular manoeuvres like the death spiral, and wondered "how do they do it?" With 
StickMover you see the moves on the screen and feel the control sticks moving at the same time, guiding 
you to learn the moves. 

The StickMover looks like a regular remote control. Instead of controlling a model aircraft, it leads 
you through any given manoeuvre step-by-step. As you watch the flight on your screen, the StickMover 
goes through all the motions, letting your fingers feel exactly what to do in any given moment. By 
watching, feeling and repeating you will learn the moves intuitively. 

Patrick, an RC pilot for many years wanted to replicate some daredevil manoeuvres he had see. First 
he used a book, but soon realized that there wasn't much connection between the book and fingers. 
Watching a video didn't work out either and said, "You can't split your attention, you're either focussing 
on watching the flight or the control sticks." At this time, Patrick's little son was eager to learn to write his 
name. "I guided him holding the pencil and suddenly knew what to do. You're not going to acquire any 
advanced skill by watching someone performing it -you've got to do it yourself." At that moment, the idea 
of the StickMover was born. Together with his long-time friend Ulrich, they developed the StickMover 
with the help of a software developer, a mechanical engineer and some of the best 3D pilots and model 
aircraft designers in Germany, Marius and Nico Niewind. They assisted in optimising the StickMover 
system to meet highest professional standards. 

After three years of development they want to start 
production of the first thousand StickMovers. To finance 
the production Patrick and Ulrich prepared a crowd 
funding campaign on Kickstarter and hope to get the 
support of passionate RC pilots around the world at 
https://goo.gl/ 1 sqyAG 

For further information on the StickMover and 
AVIrem GmbH go to www.avirem.de or if you have any 
questions or comments head to social@avirem.de 



IN BRIEF ... 


INTRODUCING: 


Allianz will be the title sponsor of the new Drone 
Racing League World Championship in 2017. The 
series kicks off in June and is set to offer new pilots, 
bigger courses and even faster drones. 

Look out for a racing quad from DJI. We spotted a video 
uploaded by Rotor Riot that showed off a prototype carbon 
fibre frame equipped with an alloy centre section, Snail 2305- 
2400Kv motors, tri-bladed props and a Takyon ESC combo 
- look out for more news as we get it... 


3/?Z_ ^ 

Allianz (jfi) 

WORLD 

CHAMPIONSHIP 





tJ§i 

HA$$£L£ LAD 

C*t A H TO INSPIRE, 



DJI have completed a full acquisition 
of Hasselblad after initially buying a 
share of the famous Swedish camera 
manufacturer. 


WATCH THE VIDEO NOW 


As Drone Zone went to press we heard the news that the UK Drone Store Ltd will shortly be opening the 
world's first permanent indoor drone racing circuit in Nottingham. The new venue will host six rounds of 
the iSeries league in 2017. You can find out all about this at www.ukdsracing.com 


DroneZone 


rotoruuorld.co.uk 





FEATURE - Diary of a Newbie 


aaasBan, 

bib nave a 

BBBBIBIB! 


A SUDDEN LOSS OF POWER CHALLENGES OUR SCRIBETHIS 
MONTH AS HETRIESTO IDENTIFY THE ISSUE AND WORK 
THROUGH THE OPTIONS AVAILABLE. BUT THIS FAULT FINDING 
PROCESS WILL CERTAINLY HELP SHAUN INTHE FUTURE AS HE 
CONSIDERS BUILDING HIS OWN DRONE RACER 


elcome to part four of my diary and 
if you have been following my story 
from part one, I thank you and hope 
that you have enjoyed my journey 
so far. So a quick summary of my experiences so far! 
I'm now flying in Horizon mode, carrying out amateur 
freestyle flights complete with flips, rolls and low- 
level high-speed fly-bys with my Eachine 250 Racer 
quadcopter. I have started practising some FPV racing 
as well with my flying buddies, all through some Fat 
Shark Teleporter goggles. Suffice to say I'm no longer 
a newbie in this exciting hobby, but still have a long 
way to go to get anywhere near a decent level to start 
entering any competitions. Regular videos appearing 
on my Facebook page and links to YouTube channels 
can confirm this! 

No real major concerns from a complete newbie 
perspective, but obviously I have had my fair share of 
crashes and yet nothing that has stopped me flying. 

I'm slowly getting used to the technical side of the 
hobby with regards to what each individual item does, 
although I am still not where I would like to be so more 
research and homework to be done there. 

Also, at time of writing, the good weather has long 
come to an abrupt end, the evenings are dark and 
that means fewer opportunities for flying. I haven't 
been up in the air as much as I would have liked over 
the last few weeks as other commitments and hobbies 
have got in the way. Saying that, I will be wrapping 
up warm and flying as much as I can on the dry, 
colder days ahead. 



TIME FOR ACRO! 

So as mentioned, I am totally happy flying in Horizon 
or self-levelling mode, but need to start trying Aero. 
With this flight mode already set in my Spektrum 
transmitter it was just a case of flicking the lever. The 
first attempt did not go to plan as seconds after take off 
the screens in my goggles were showing some corn, 
upside-down may I add as I had flipped a few metres 
away from the take off point in our local field. 

Once again my flying companions Paul and Wayne 
were there to give guidance and tips (as well as the 
compulsory supporting laughter and chuckles). Advice 
from them was I didn't have enough height before 
attempting any form of movement so with lots more 
throttle applied, we managed to get in to the air safely 
on the second go. 

Within the first few seconds in Aero I was surprised 
to see how much more responsive the Eachine was. 

My rates were set a little higher than in Horizon mode 
so I could carry out barrel rolls and front/backflips 
quicker than before, but had to take into account I was 



Getting comfy with FPV 


tO 





Dave Pictonite’s nice looking Eachine Falcon 250 
at one of our Facebook meet-ups 


Wayne Humphrey’s new qaud is very Quad number 257 this year for my flying chum Paul 
orange! 


in control of where they finished and sort out any over 
rotations, and this takes a little getting used too. 

This was quite hard to do and it certainly made the 
few flights I had that day more of a challenge. Flying in 
Aero mode though was impressive and I felt like I had 
achieved quite a lot with regards to where I started a 
few months ago. 

MORE RACE PRACTICE 

So, while getting used to flying in Aero mode and 
the more responsiveness of my quad, I continued to 
have some more race practise with my flying chums. 
Previously we were using some homemade gates made 
out of foam that have got us started, but now we have 
a couple of purpose built gates to fly under as well. We 
have marked out a small yet challenging course using 
the gates and trees at one of our flying locations. The 
racing has been fun if not a little frustrating due to the 
numerous crashes. Approximately half the time I can fly 
under the gates at speed and complete a few laps with 
no issues, other times I either clip a gate or crash at a 
fair rate of knots, or just miss judge my height around 
the corners. 


One thing I have noticed with my Eachine is that it is 
not as smooth in flight compared to the custom quads 
of my competitors, Paul or Wayne despite numerous 
changes in set-up via LibrePilot on my laptop. Having a 
quick go on Paul's ZMR quad confirmed this. All in all, 
there is steady progress being made with regards to 
the racing aspect of drone flying and it really is a more 
demanding challenge than my RC car racing activities. 

TWO SHAUN TAYLORS 

Recently I have discovered that there are two of us. 
Shaun Taylor the FPV novice from a cold and damp 
UK and the other Shaun Taylor AKA Nytfury from the 
USA who is very, very good (and better looking!) A 
number of videos and links have again popped up 
on my Facebook news feed showing some of Shaun's 
amazing flying and his latest victories in the drone 
racing world championships. Maybe one day I could 
join him? Now that would be confusing! 

BOGNOR AND CHICHESTER FPV 

Another quick update from the Facebook page that 
Paul, Wayne and I created back in spring. We set it up 


initially to meet up with other local multi-rotor enthusiasts 
and that has been a success, but also it is somewhere to 
ask for help or guidance as there is lots of knowledge 
available from some experienced fliers. The regular 
meet-ups have been well supported, but as mentioned 
earlier I have struggled to get there as much as I would 
have liked due to other commitments. 

With new fliers came issues with signal clashes so 
we have now come up with a guide where we are all 
allocated our own frequency to fly with, and this has 
helped stop any accidents. We also have a designated 
flying area and take off/landing space, and most 
importantly there are a number of spotters for when 
others are flying. All good stuff and like my flying, it's 
great so see the on-going improvements which in turn 
makes the whole flying experience more enjoyable and 
most importantly safe! 

Flying wings have started to make an appearance 
at the meets from none other than Paul who has had 
a couple of these models now, all flown via FPV. I like 
the look of them, but i t's not something I'm desperate 
to get into just yet. The new Parrot Disco does look 
very nice though! 





FEATURE - Diary of a Newbie 



Shaun Taylor number two. A better Wayne has gone back to FPV flying from a screen 
flier and bigger muscles! 




THEN IT HAPPENS! 

I have been happily flying in Aero with numerous 
successful flights under my belt, I was once again at 
my local model car club showing my car racing friends 
how different Aero was compared to Horizon mode. 
With my first battery all done with no issues it was onto 
flight number two and about halfway through at around 
50-metres away the Eachine just lost all control/signal 
and dropped out of the sky. As this hadn't happened 
before, I quickly ran over to check it out. Nothing was 
glaringly obvious so I tried again only for it to happen 
again within a few seconds. 

Luckily both times I was only a few metres above 
the ground when I lost control so no damage occurred, 
but the head scratching started. With the GoPro on at 
the time I quickly watched the footage via the App on 
my phone that confirmed a complete loss of power as 
all motors shut down. With my technical knowledge 
nowhere nearby flying ability, I was a bit lost but 
started the process of elimination. First of was to try 
another freshly charged battery and still no joy. 

A thorough check of all the wires and connections 
confirmed all was as it should be so it was a case of 
looking at potential equipment failure. I had a spare 
receiver for my Spektrum transmitter, but it operates 
via PPM that for some reason we were unable to set 
up originally when I first had my Eachine. I'm currently 
using the Spektrum AR7610 receiver and looking into 
replacing one of these is rather expensive! 

A few more flights a couple of days after confirmed to 
me we still have the issue. The Eachine still flies, but will 
randomly loose signal in which for very obvious reasons 


isn't very good at all. I have replaced the lead from the 
receiver to the satellite receiver as this was looking well 
used but frustratingly the issue was still present. 

I have tried numerous things to solve the issue whilst 
trying not to fork out lots of money (last resort). From re- 
binding the transmitter and receiver to moving locations 
of both receiver and satellite module, extending aerials 
but nothing has solved the problem. I even noticed the 
transmitter aerial had been damaged somehow so 
purchased a brand new one in the hope that was the 
culprit. The Spektrum DX7 was taken apart relatively 
easily with no concerns and assembled back together 
again with the new aerial in place. 

Another test flight looked promising, without trying 
any flips and just carrying out a low speed, low level 
flight the Eachine looked like it was behaving itself. But 
this was short lived, as yet again all control was lost 
around the 50-metre mark once more. 

Time to try the PPM receiver I feel, although it would 
have to be in a completely different/new quad. 

NEXT TIME 

With the range issue's I was having with my Eachine, 
and with a relatively decent level of flying experience 
under my belt, my desire to build my own quadcopter 
from scratch was now a very close reality. So in the next 
edition of Drone Zone I will talk about my new custom 
build project, parts I used and how it all went together. 
Until then, thanks for reading and happy flying! 



It’s not only 
quads that 
suffer damage. 
Our gate gets 
abuse as well! 


Another 

homemade 

gate 


Much better 
line through 
the gates 




Hopefully 
this hasnt 
packed up! 


I have 
replaced 
the lead to 
the satellite 
receiver 
and tried 
different 
locations on 
the Eachine 


The 

Eachine 

flight 

control 

module 


Transmitter 


surgery! 


Replacing 
the damaged 
aerial on the 
Spektrum 
transmitter 





M LandscapePro 

MAKE LANDSCAPES BEAUTIFUL 



BEFORE 


"I absolutely loved this software 
and as a 'non-techy' I found it so 
easy to use/' 

Drone User Feb 2017 


AFTER - EDITED IN 1 MIN 



Fast, easy landscape photo editing software 

With intelligent controls that adapt to the features in your photo, LandscapePro allows 
you to get dramatic results with your landscapes. 

- Intelligent selection tools. 

- Unique editing controls that adapt to your photo. 

- Easy-to-use slider interface. 

- No technical skill required. 

- Studio edition handles RAW files and can be run as a Photoshop or Lightroom plug-in. 


EXTRA 10% OFF 
CODE RCDZAP17 


Some of the things you can do with LandscapePro 

• Sky controls: replace sky, change clouds and colour, cast cloud shadows 

• Lighting: change light source, temperature, time of day, go from dawn to sunset 

• Automatic area selection: tag areas as sky, trees, buildings, grass, sand, rock, water 

• Targeted editing: specially designed controls for different areas 

• Distance controls: highlight objects, add fog 

• One click presets: wet sand, stormy water, red sunset, lush trees 

• And more... 


Download your free trial now: www.LandscapePro.pics! 




FEATURE 


Nuremberg Toy Fair 


DELUXE MATERIALS 


ANTI-DRONE 


Align were one of the few heli brands at 
the Toy Fair and they had the new MR25X 
on show - look out for a review soon 


Not everyone was positive about 
drones 


Yes it’s an RC car body, but Deluxe Materials Fix N 
Flex is perfect for holding speed controller wires down 
for a super clean look without the need for heatshrink. 
Body Armour can also be used to protect and repair 
drone canopies 


DJI were showing their Inspire 2 with X5S camera and the Agras 
MG- I that is designed for industrial crop spraying 




f| ' | 1- ™ 







l^r ^ 1 - 




I n ■■■* "B m 

V ^ 

* r 

IB 1 ^ 


if 

H i / vi 



Rr TAW 









ALLTHE MAJOR PLAYERS FROM THE DRONE MARKET WERE OUT IN FORCE ATTHE 
ANNUAL NUREMBERG TOY FAIR IN GERMANY AND NATURALLY DRONE ZONE WERE 
IN ATTENDANCETO SEE ALLTHE NEW PRODUCTS FROM THE BIG AND ESTABLISHED 
BRANDS, THROUGHTO THE NEWER ONES AIMINGTO BREAK INTO THE MARKET.. 


GDU have been around for a 
couple of years and therefore 
claimed as being the first to 
offer a folding arms design 



Mawlry apstmy 


* Teietneby fwcim (Mage) ? 

* Selectable S-Busamf FPM 
r RSSi srgmi out 

■ Fail-safe/ Hold Function 
1 Compatible w/ifr all Hitec Radios 

' S J?° 35 x fo&amp;XSfim (US X 0.66X0. 
Weight. 4. )g(Qj4oz) 


QRAUPNER 


HITEC 


Optima B is a 
new lightweight 
quad racing 
receiver from 


Graupner had some cool looking carbon fibre race quads and this 
funky tricopter on their stand 


Hobbywing were packaging up these motor and speed controller 
sets like this limited edition gold version. CML Distribution who 
represent the company in the UK are sending DZ a set very soon 





S f 


HOBBYWING 


' 


A 


HUBSAN 




The award winning tiny drones from Hubsan 


LRP have added to their flight pack line up with these quad racing 



packs as used by the guys at Team RGB (see page 36) 


MICRODRONE 


Vernon, Stefan and Chris from Extreme Fliers had 
some cool new stuff on show for the Micro Drone 3.0 
like a racing carbon fibre frame set and updated cam- 
era components 


Micro Drone 


FEATURE - Nuremberg Toy Fair 





rotorl 


s*nrtnsuM/en 


The new GT range of chargers from Revelectrix distributed by OptiPower and an improved matching power supply. The UK company are 
continuing to improve the specs of their quad racing LiPo packs 


dpo urn 


pro hiq naa a range ot carbon tiore drones including small 
racing quads through to larger hex models 


2 * 




PROPEL 


IIIIIIIlH 


Propel opted for 
the dark side to 
promote their new 
range of Star Wars 
models including 
battle drones 




FEATURE - Nuremberg Toy Fair 


RISE 





Rise showed off their new indoor model called the Vusion House Racer FPV, Vusion RXS 255 and the Vusion Extreme Race Pack 



rotoruuorldco.uk 


W&amp;LKERA 


Lots of new items on the 
Walkera stand. Clockwise 
from top left there is the 
Voyager 4 for commercial 
and recreational use, Fu- 
rious 215 and Rodeo I 10 
racing quads as well as 
the Vitus folding model 






ON TEST - DJI Mavic Pro 



W e won't relive the frenzy that 

surrounded the launch of the DJI 
Mavic Pro, but suffice to say, in 
October three small 4K camera 
drones were released and here as we write this in 
January, only one still has a waiting list; the Mavic 
Pro. Whatever magic sauce they put in DJI products, 
this one has it in spades as the demand for it has 
been unprecedented in the industry. DJI aren't short of 
manufacturing capacity either, so the fact it is sold out 
three months later compares only to something like the 
latest iPhone from Apple, such is the demand. 

SO WHAT IS THE MAVIC PRO? 

As alluded to earlier, the DJI Mavic Pro is the Chinese 
company's answer to the smaller (250- size roughly) 
GPS-enabled 4K quadcopter. The interesting thing about 
this drone is that it uses a folding design that allows it 
to be both easily transportable as well as big enough 
to be stable, even in wind (although not lots of wind as 
we later found out!) As well as folding arms, the props 
also tuck in, which is something that DJI have taken from 
their larger craft like the Matrice 600, and this premium 
(and expensive to engineer) feature allows the Mavic 
Pro to be even smaller when packed up. DJI say it folds 
up to the size of a water bottle, which is fairly accurate, 
although if you want to take the included transmitter 
with you, this measures up at almost the same size as 
the drone so you need to bear that in mind. 


RANGE AND QUALITY 

The two things that buyers of the average £1000 drone 
always ask us here at Drone Zone are firstly, what is the 
range? And then, how good is the camera? The answer 
to the first is 'phenomenal' as this drone would appear 
to have the longest range of any drone we've tested in 
the real world. DJI claim it will travel up to 7km away (if 
you can get it back from this distance!), but we all know 
that in reality these claims leave a lot to be desired, 
especially if there is any kind of interference present. 
However, in our testing, and bear in mind we really 
do test craft - our Mavic Pro flew over 27-kilometres 
and had 120-minutes of flight time before we put pen 
to proverbial paper - the range of this machine was 
the best of anything we have flown. This includes the 
renowned Phantom 3 Professional and an S900 with 
Futaba radio gear, even more amazing when you 
look at the size of the antenna on the controller! When 
it comes to camera quality, the included sensor will 
deliver 4K at 30fps video footage and 1 080P at 96fps 
if you need a high frame rate. Stills are captured at 
1 2MP, so about as good as your smartphone, although 
bear in mind that at 120-metres up, you won't be able 
to capture detail. If we could compare it to another 
product, we'd say it is about on par with a Phantom 3 
4K. In conclusion then, this has a pretty good camera, 
and an exceptionally smooth gimbal. For the same 
price, a Phantom 4 will give you a tiny bit better 
camera, and a longer flight time, but probably less 




Folded down into 
its smallest size. 
This will fit into a 
small handbag or 
rucksack with ease 










)ED.THIS 


PR&lt; 


g du cT 


,,T IS |NTEND EL \" rUT WHILE 

0FTITLE 

f OUB H1T TH E — 

g&amp;S^w^ 

TOM 5 taCEY 


lnd u 




Like the arms 
the props 
also fold in 
for a compact 
package. Each 
prop can easily 
be replaced if 
necessary 


The 1/2.3” CMOS 
camera is rated at 
I2.35MP 


The rear arms 
shown here rotate 
backwards into 


position 


Visibility and 
orientation is 


made easy by 
bright LEDs 





real-word range, so it'd be a very difficult decision if 
you had to choose. 

THE CRAFT AND CONTROLLER 

As mentioned, the Movie Pro itself folds up. The front 
arms fold out forwards, whilst the rear arms twist up 
and under to the rear - it is fairly obvious if you study it, 
but you need to be careful not to assume the rear arms 
fold in the same plane as the front and force them out 
against their wishes! DJI suggest you unfold the props 
too, although centrifugal force will straighten these for 
you if you forget. The props are also removable, by 
pushing them and twisting opposite to their direction 
of travel, which will make it even more compact for 
transportation. The gimbal has both a lock that clips 
in behind it for travel (this should be used at all times 
when the craft isn't flying) as well as a clear cover that 
can optionally be used when flying. Having seen some 
crash videos when the gimbal is ripped off the craft 
quite easily, we'd suggest using the cover if you can. 

A multi-functional LED at the rear and bright front LEDs 
complete the machine itself, whilst the 3S LiPo battery 
clips into the top of the body, and features the normal 
on-off button as per all other DJI machines as well as a 
level indication via green LEDs. 

The controller is a beautiful design - like the drone, 
it folds up to allow you to keep it small for transport, 
but is big enough to accept a large smartphone like 
an Apple iPhone 7 Plus to allow you to use the DJI Go 
App. The button layout of the controller is essentially 
the same as the larger DJI controllers, and also 
includes a joystick-type button for navigating options. 
In terms of actually controlling the drone, you have 
three choices. The first is to use the controller on its 
own and an inbuilt LCD will give you some flight data 
so you know how far away it is and what mode the 
drone is in. The second is to combine the controller 
and smartphone (running DJI Go), which will give you 
the ability to frame your videos and photos and fly 
via FPV, as well as carry out calibration and firmware 
updates. The final and interesting option is to use your 
smartphone only. This option replaces the joysticks 
with on-screen versions (similar to a Parrot drone), but 
keeps the other DJI Go options. The only drawback of 
this option is a reduced range of around 100-metres 
and is perhaps only useful if you want to travel very 
light and can't take the controller. 

FLIGHT MODES AND CAPABILITIES 

The Movie Pro features a number of intelligent flight 
modes as per the rest of the range. These include 
Course Lock, Home Lock, Point of Interest (POI), Follow 
Me and Waypoints, and a rather cool gesture mode 
that will take a photo of you when you wave your arms 


Charger for the Mavic Pro battery also features a couple of 
USB outputs 

I IMI 


at the drone. We won't go into lots of detail on these 
modes, but suffice to say, if you want to do more than 
just fly FPV and snap pictures then the Mavic Pro will 
prove to be a very flexible tool for owners, and the 
feedback we've had from some of the flyers here at 
the magazine is that they find active track extremely 
useful when recording people or moving objects, 
if not totally infallible... In terms of the way that the 
drone flies, we definitely didn't expect it to be quite 
as good as it was - DJI have added a lot of flight tech 
to their flight controller even in spite of the fact that it 
has shrunk considerably compared to their previous 
drones. Underneath the body are a combination of 
two cameras and two sonar sensors that mean it can 
hold position with amazing accuracy, even when 
indoors with no GPS signal. When the Mavic Pro 
takes off, it takes a snapshot of its take-off spot and 
then when landing, will compare the images to ensure 
it lands where it took off - this is the kind of tech that 
only DJI are putting in consumer-level machines at the 
moment and shows just how much they've invested in 
this platform. If you're interested in forward obstacle 
avoidance, then it is present here, using a similar 
system to the Phantom 4 and can be used to prevent the 
craft flying into anything during normal flight as well as 
in smart return-to-home. 

IS THIS A GAME-CHANGER? 

We introduced this review saying that the Mavic Pro 
is a sector-redefining product, we've been through the 
features, and they sound impressive, but you might 
argue that it doesn't offer more than say a Phantom 4 
(and less than a Phantom 4 Pro). However, the thing 
that makes this product so good is the way these 
features have been brought together, and the size of 
the resulting aircraft. People hold up the Phantom 4 as 
the model of easily transportable, easy to use aerial 
photography for the masses and of course a Phantom 
4 can fit is a reasonable sized backpack with its 
controller and perhaps a spare battery. The thing is, the 
Mavic Pro can fit it a handbag, or even (if you wear 
a big coat) a pocket, and yet it offers 99 per cent of 
what a Phantom offers. It makes you think 'shouldn't all 
drones be this size?' Which is exactly what our team 
said when it was passed around the Drone Zone office. 
Perhaps the only things a bigger drone will always 
offer are more speed and better wind resistance, but if 
you're doing this recreationally, you should ask yourself 
seriously if a much more transportable package is more 
important - in most situations, we'd bet it would be. 

Even if this is not the best option for you as a drone 
pilot, we'd still recommend you consider one; it's that 
good a machine. 

An optional 
Battery Charging 
Hub for multiple 
packs is available 
alongside the 
included standard 
Battery Charger 
as shown here 


Sensors and cameras are located on the 
underside 


Slide the switch to swap between using 
the included transmitter (RC) or your 
smartphone (WIFI). Memory card is included 
as standard 


The 3830 I 1.4V 
Intelligent Flight 
Battery was 
specially designed 
for the Mavic Pro 




% 


a 


si 



&gt; 



Like the drone, 
the transmitter 
also folds up into a 
small package 


The clamping 
system allows 
a range of 
smartphone 
types to be 
connected 




The twin aerials lock down for 
transportation then rotate into a vertical 
position for transmission and reception 


The flylead with Apple’s Lightning 
Connector fitted 




Camera button and rotating dial for ease of 



rotoriuodd.co.uk 


control and adjustment 


ONTEST-dji 






ON TEST 





As mentioned in the main review, we were lucky enough to get an extended 
loan of the Mavic Pro from DJI GmbH so we wanted to put it through its 
paces with a significant test. From our first test in the office car park to a 
long distance flight, and in a range of temperatures we tried to experience 
the Mavic Pro in as many situations as possible. In nearly all of these 
situations, we were nothing short of blown away with how well this thing 
flies. It is a model of stability, consistently hovering within a few centimetres 
in virtually all situations, from just off the ground to 1 20-metres in the air. 

It's fast too - with sport mode on we saw over 50kph, which is astounding, 
although probably helped by the wind too. The range as mentioned is 
amazing, and the quality of the video is pretty good in DJI Go, especially in 
version 4 of the App. It's a hard thing to describe in words how enjoyable 
the Mavic Pro is to fly and how capable it is too. If you can try and fly one, 
then do and we think your mind will be made up. If you can't we'd equally 
have no issues in recommending it blind regardless. 

In terms of reservations we had with the Mavic Pro, two issues were 
experienced during our test - the first is that in very cold temperatures 
(around freezing point) the footage and photos were often blurry - this 
wasn't a consistent issue, but it wasn't a one off either. The second, slightly 
more worrying issue was that in strong winds the drone would often not be 
able to fly against the wind, if you start off downwind like we did, and fly a 
few hundred metres, then you may struggle to get back to your home point. 
In this situation, pressing return to home didn't help at all as the Mavic 
Pro tried to climb into stronger winds! At one stage we were watching the 
drone travelling away from us even when pointed in the home direction and 
attempting to return. If this happens to you, then our best advice is to land if 
safely and go and collect your drone yourself. ■ 


DroneZone 




ON TEST - DJI Mavic Pro 



“The DJI Mavic Pro is the Chinese 
company’s answer to the smaller 


GPS-enabled 4K quadcopter... 







DJI Mavic Pro 


Specification: 

Diaqonal Size: 

335mm 

Weight: 

743g 

Max Speed: 

65kph 

Max Ceilinq: 

5000m 

Max Flight Time: 

27-minutes 

Photo Formats: 

JPEG, DNG 

Video Formats: 

MP4, MOV, MPEG 

Max Range: 

13km 

Battery Spec: 

2970mAh 

What's Included: 

• DJI Mavic Pro 

• Transmitter 

• Intelligent flight battery 

• Battery charger 

• Power cable 

• Gimbal cover 

• 1 6GB Micro-SD card 

• Micro-USB cable 

• Quick start guide 

• Safety and battery guidelines 

RRP: 

£1099 

Available from: 

All good model shops 

UK Distributor: 

Flying Drones 

E-mail: 

... info@flying-drones.co.uk 

Website: 

flying-drones.co.uk 

Tel: 

01279 718 1 1 1 

Manufacturer: 

DJI 

Website: 

www.dji.com 








TECH INSIGHT 


WHAT’S NEW 

A SELECTION OFTHE LATEST NEW PRODUCTS AIMED ATTHE GROWING DRONE AND MULTI-ROTOR MARKET 


A new Aircraft Sleeve provides Mavic Pro owners with additional peace of mind when carrying and 
storing their drone. The sleeve is custom-designed to nestle the Mavic Pro in its soft interior padding, 
helping to minimise the risk of external scratches and other damage, as well as keeping it free of dust 
during storage. 

Other accessories designed for outdoor aerial enthusiasts include a new remote controller monitor 
hood, giving operators a better view of what they are shooting under direct sunlight, and ND Filters 
which can be easily attached to the camera gimbal, allowing more control of the camera's aperture, 
exposure time and sensor sensitivity settings. 

Available from: DJI 

Website: www.dji.com 

Contact: Via website 



DJI MAVIC PRO AIRCRAFT SLEEVE 




KDE DIRECT UAS 
MULTI-ROTOR 
PROPELLER BLADE 
TORQUE WRENCH 
SERIES 

The KDE Direct UAS Multi-Rotor Propeller Blade 
Torque Wrench Series provides pre-calibrated, 
handheld torque-wrenches for simple bolt-on 
installation of the KDE Direct UAS Propeller 
Blade Series and UAS Propeller Blade Adapters, 
and also for periodic maintenance to offer 
smooth, vibration-free flight performance. 
Multiple sizes and fixed-torque editions are 
available for installation between components. 

- KDE-TW3025 Propeller Blade Torque Wrench 
for Multi-Rotor (UAS) Series (3.0 in-lb/2. 5mm) 

- KDE-TW3525 Propeller Blade Torque Wrench 
for Multi-Rotor (UAS) Series (3.5 in-lb/2. 5mm) 

- KDE-TW4025 Propeller Blade Torque Wrench 
for Multi-Rotor (UAS) Series (4.0 in-lb/2. 5mm) 

- KDE-TW4525 Propeller Blade Torque Wrench 
for Multi-Rotor (UAS) Series (4.5 in-lb/2. 5mm) 

- KDE-TW5030 Propeller Blade Torque Wrench 
for Multi-Rotor (UAS) Series (5.0 in-lb/3mm) 

- KDE-TW5530 Propeller Blade Torque Wrench 
for Multi-Rotor (UAS) Series (5.5 in-lb/3mm) 

- KDE-TW6030 Propeller Blade Torque Wrench 
for Multi-Rotor (UAS) Series (6.0 in-lb/3mm) 

Available from: KDE Direct 

Website: www.kdedirect.com 

Contact: sales@kdedirect.com 


DJI MAVIC PRO ADVANCED 
BATTERY CHARGING HUB 

The new Advanced Battery Charging Hub is a smart, quick and reliable 
way for pilots to charge up to four Intelligent Flight Batteries in a single 
session and a new Aircraft Sleeve provides Mavic Pro owners additional 
peace of mind when carrying and storing their drone. 

The Intelligent Flight Batteries will be charged in sequence according to 
their power levels, from high to low. It is also compatible with the Phantom 
4 series 1 00W charger that can further reduce the charging time. 


Available from: 

Website: 

Contact: 



DJI 

www.dji.com 
Via website 



rotoruuorid.co.uk 





GRAUPNER MC-28 HOTT 


The Graupner mc-28 HoTT is the next-generation tray transmitter 
system that provides all the requirements of an advanced RC 
control. The mc-28 HoTT grants real-time telemetry information. 
Important model data are communicated with the help of optical, 
haptic signals (vibrations) and voice announcements. The mc-28, 
which is more compact than the mc-32, has 1 6 control channels, 
milled aluminium control stick units with 12-bit hall sensors and 
new interesting software features. 

Features: 

- Stick gimbals made of machined aluminium with 12-Bit Hall 
sensors 

- Circular polarised patch antenna (RHCP) optimised for wider 
range and reliability 

- 1 6 proportional control channels 

- 1 20-model memory 

- 12 mixer (8 linear/4 curve) 

- 8 phase modes 

- Freely assignable logical switches 

- In-operation auto trim function 

- Custom programming for planes, helicopters, multi-copters 

- Over 400 integrated telemetry voice announcements with 20 
freely announce switches 

- User assignable and custom voice announcements 

- Freely assignable channel setup (switches, rotary or sliders 
controls) 

- Integrated haptic feedback alarms 

- Multi receiver binding for expansion and system redundancy 

- MP3 player controllable with user assignable switches 

Available from: Logic RC 

Website: www.LogicRC.com 

Contact: 01992 558226 


SPEKTRUM TRICERA FPV 
RACING ANTENNA 

The Spektrum TriCera FPV Racing Antenna is 
designed to provide the cleanest video signal and the 
maximum coverage whilst providing great durability. 

Spektrum RC teamed up with Aerial Visual System's 
IBCrazy to design a FPV antenna that offers near 
seamless omni directional coverage by optimizing 
the ratio between gain and axial ratio. The end 
product utilises protective foam infused casing 
that is shaped specifically to prevent the mast from snagging on branches and gates 
along with a durable semi rigid cable. The cable itself is rigid enough to be extremely 
durable, but also retains a memory of its curve. This provides the antenna the ability to 
bounce back to the original position after being struck. Complete with a durable SMA 
Connector and SMA finger wrench for easy installation. 



Features: 

- Designed, tested and manufactured by IBCrazy 

- Made in the USA of Foreign and Domestic Parts 

- High axial ratio provides better signal quality and excellent omni directional coverage 

- Optimised for harsh RF environments foliage, indoor, et cetera) 

- Smooth orbital design prevents snags in flight 

- Foam infused casing for superior crash-protection 

- Semi-Rigid cable that is durable and retains shape 

- Great for drone and goggles. Use on both for best performance 

- SPMVX5851 Spektrum TriCera RHCP FPV Race Antenna 

- SPMVX5861 Spektrum TriCera 5.8GHz LHCP FPV Antenna 


Available from: 

Website: 

Contact: 


Horizon Hobby UK 
www.horizonhobby.co.uk 
01279 641097 




CASTLE CREATIONS 
BEC 2.0 VOLTAGE REGULATOR 

From the trusted manufacturer of BECs comes their next generation of voltage regulators. 
Designed and assembled in the USA, Castle Creations CC BEC 2.0 gives users higher 
voltage ranges in two unique packages. For pilots there is a smaller, lightweight 
(0.7-oz) design capable of 1 4A peak, perfect for sport flying, helicopters, and UAVs. 
Racers, crawlers, and other splashers can now integrate a 1 5A peak power regulator 
in a waterproof (WP), CNC machined, aluminium case. Both versions handle up to an 
impressive 1 4S without brake enabled or 1 2S with brake. 

The CC BEC 2.0 features heavy duty, dual output wires that will provide clean power to 
sensitive radio equipment. Castle Link2 can be used to set the output from 4.75V to 1 2V 
and power today's power hungry servos, cameras and other accessories. 


Available from: 

Website: 

Contact: 


Logic RC 

www. LogicRC.com 
01992 558226 


TEAM BLACKSHEEP POWERCUBE 
DRAG RACE SHIELD XXL 

The TBS PowerCap Shield protects your batteries from an overly 
aggressive motor set-up! With motors and propellers becoming more and 
more power hungry, the PowerCap shield adds 2200uF of capacitance 
to your power supply. Alternatively if you are just after capacitors 
because you can solder yourself, then TBS offers their own. These claim 
to be the highest power, lowest internal resistance capacitor on the 
market, wrapped up in a tiny case and rated at 220uF and 35V. Solder 
one to each ESC or just solder them to your PDB to fight voltage spikes. 

Available from: Team BlackSheep 

Website: www.team-blacksheep.com 

Contact: Via website 



DroneZone 


rotoruuorld.co.uk 





ON TEST -VelociDrone 





In the model select option screen 


WETESTTHE NEWEST DRONE RACING SIMULATOR ON THE 
MARKET CALLED VELOCIDRONETO SEE IFWE CAN BRUSH UP ON 
OUR SKILLS AS JAMIE COLE FINDS OUT 


he simulator generation has brought 
a massive learning curve within reach 
of so many people. The value of the 
sim has been proven in RC helis and 
planes since the first versions some 30 years 
ago such as RC AeroChoppper, and its worth a 
Google just to see how bad the graphics were 
and how far things have moved on! This saved 
people lots of money, but more importantly time 
as it meant you could build in those reflexes 
to know what stick to push or pull. For me 
what's even more interesting is that simulators 
are being used for so much more these days 
as the technology has evolved, you now even 
have cycling simulators (Zwift) that you can bolt 
your bike to and it will then vary the resistance 
depending on the terrain you are riding in the 
virtual world whilst also cycling against a load 
of other competitors. This is all taking place in a 
virtual world, that's pretty cool and much safer 
practice than the freezing winter roads! Take a 
look at FI and these guys are in the simulator 
all the time as drivers learn a new track, testing 
set-ups on the car and all whilst using real 
world dynamics - this is some amazing stuff. 

So how is that relevant to us, well the 
multi-player bit is very relevant as is the whole 
principle of the simulator. We now have RC 
drone racing or quad racing as I prefer to call 
it and it is all based on First Person View. If 
you have not seen it then Google it, it's all over 
the BBC, Sky and of course YouTube. If you 
have tried it then you will know it is incredibly 
difficult at first - even if you can fly, it is totally 


different to anything else you have ever tried 
before, and then there is the racing! 

THE PRESSURE BUILDS 

If you have ever raced RC cars, large of small 
scale, or whatever racing it may have been it 
brings another dynamic to the table which is 
often not considered until you are in it and that 
is pressure. Over the winter I race some RC cars 
and one of my close friends does the same but 
he also races full-size cars around a race track. 
He says that racing RC makes his knees knock 
with nerves more than the real thing and that 
you feel the pressure, this in turn pushes you into 
making mistakes. 

Now RC quad racing involves flying through 
gates and around a course to get laps in, with 
gates that are normally arches no higher than 
waist height. This doesn't seem like too much 
of a problem until you put it all into context 
of an RC quad that flies in all dimensions, an 
archway that you need to fly through at 80mph 
(may be not on the first attempt) and that's 
about a metre off the deck whilst negotiating 
hairpin turns and other obstacle! Oh and with 
the added pressure of some guy right behind 
you trying to get a faster lap time than you! Oh 
and did I mention that is whilst looking through 
a pair of goggles or looking at a screen to fly 
the model around the circuit in FPV mode? 

Now hopefully that sounds a little more of a 
challenge than just have a little jolly around a 
few trees, and now hopefully you can see the 
challenge that awaits if you want to compete. 




You have option for single plater or as shown here, multiplay 



Just like the real world, as you push the limits of range the image 
becomes fuzzy 







1 


MY EXPERIENCE 

I only really started pushing the FPV side this year 
as a side line from RC helis and we have had 
some fun - mainly everyone else having fun and 
laughing hard at the fact I was so useless, and 
that is despite 30 years in the hobby! Stick those 
goggles on and I become a liability! A classic 
example of over confidence with a little bit of 
knowledge being dangerous! So in my eagerness 
to improve I started with some small indoor stuff 
to get me going (or at least so I didn't continue to 
make a fool of myself). Now that did teach me the 
basics and get me around a course, but lets face it 
my eight-year-old could get around Silverstone in a 
pedal car, it just might take all day, and that was 
my ability, no crashes just a leisurely hover around 
the FPV course. So how do you improve to get to 
the point of 80mph through that gate so close to 
the floor! Well the answer is short, we use a sim. 

WHAT IS VELOCIDRONE AND WHY? 

In the words of the team, "VelociDrone is a fast 
paced multi-player and single player FPV drone 
racing simulator. Using real world racing drones you 
can fly through an unlimited array of custom tracks 
with a variety of gates and barriers to hone your 
racing skills. Some of the gates even move! Our Time 
attack mode also lets you set the pace and improve 
with every lap whilst racing against yourself." 

That pretty much sums it up for me and what 
sets it apart, it is a racing sim and that is exactly 
what you need to get race ready. 

The why is simple to address when you think 
about doing this stuff at speed, exactly like taking 
a car around a racetrack at speed versus driving 
around the M2 5, both are driving but very 
different skill sets, although the last time I went on 
the M2 5 it was more of a car park! 

WHAT'S IN THE BOX? 

Well this is a trick as there is no box! This is a 
free download with a chargeable licence key and 
there is even a trial version to make sure you like 
it! The full sim is normally £1 9.99 but is currently 
£15.99. So no box but a single transferable 
licence key to activate the product. The application 
is about 1 .3GB and can be downloaded via 
www.velocidrone.com, the licence can also be 
bought from the same site. So by the time you 
read this article you could have downloaded and 
installed this sim! 

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS 

Well first off you will need a computer and this 
will run on a Windows or Apple machine. The 
minimum requirements are Windows 7, 8 or 10 
(64 bit only) operating system, an Intel 13 1 .7GHz 
CPU, Intel HD4000 GPU and 4GB memory. You 
will also need some more hardware in the form 
of a controller and this can be one of a number 
of options: 

• A game controller - we tested the Sony PS4 
controller 

• A USB adapter (widely available for around 
£10) and transmitter with jack for SIM/trainer 

• A 3.5mm jack adapter to plug into a 
microphone on the PC and the transmitter 
The USB adapter has a number of options 

including wireless and a number of wired ones 
starting with the Align version for £5.50 so this 
makes it one of the cheapest sims on the market by 
a country mile. 





4 


ON TEST -VelociDrone 






Hangar 


Karting Track 


FEATURES 

So let's take a tour of some of the feature and 
some of the bits we liked from the review: 
Online Multi-Player: You can race your 
mates on line or other open races, if you 
have used a PlayStation or Xbox you will 
know all about online races, awesome 
amounts of fun. There is even a leader board 
for the fasted lap times around the tracks. 
Real World Quads: That's right, flight 
dynamics based on real world quads, 
currently from a range of 1 5 models you can 
go out and buy tomorrow. 

Track Editing: Make and tweak your own 
tracks and share them online. 

Line of Sight Flying: This is as well as FPV 
flying and can help you fine-tune those skills. 
BetaFlight Flight Controller Support: 
Now this is huge! BetaFlight is one of the 
leading, if not now the leader FPV software 
pilots run on their flight controller, which 
means many pilots will be familiar with set-up 
and tweaking the model characteristics to suit 
their particular needs - this is huge! 

Time Attack: Think of this as ghost mode 
of your previous or best times on a track, hunt 
down those faster lines though the course. 
Again if you are familiar with many racing 
games from the Super Nintendo Entertainment 
System onwards this will be familiar territory, 
and if you don't know what a SNES is you 
need to Google it! 

Multiple Controller Support: All the 

top transmitters are supported but more 
importantly so are game controllers - love it! 
They even have videos on the site to help you 
set-up transmitters. 

Moving or Animated gates: Like crazy golf 
on steroids, actually no it is more like crazy 
golf on whatever makes the hulk angry! 


HOW IT FEELS 

This is super straight-forward to get on board 
with. If you use the PlayStation-style controller 
then you just plug in and go, if however you 
have the dongle option you need to follow 
a slightly more complex set-up process but 
it is not too difficult and takes less than five 
minutes. Once done you can go fly, be that in 
multi-player mode or single user mode. 

You have a vast range of tracks to choose 
from which range from a football stadium to 
a karting track. Once in flight the feel of the 
sim is very connected and realistic, which 
is of course the minimum you would expect. 
What's interesting though are the touches in 
flight like the fizzing up of the picture or the 
flicker when you get a little too far away, and 
that's pretty real, and if you go further you 
start to lose it completely - 1 have been there 
in real life and it's pretty unnerving when it 
happens. 

The racing section is pretty cool as is 


the time attack mode, although this saw us 
fighting over who had the next go and the 
next lap akin to that of playing a good old 
racing game. For me that is testimony to 
the fact they have it right, I find myself not 
thinking about the experience, but just picking 
it up and practicing as if it was the real thing. 

From a computer experience I was using 
a Dell laptop with a 1 .7GHz processor, 
integrated graphics cards (which is the 
standard rubbish laptop card) and 8GB of 
RAM and I am running Windows 10. The 
sim didn't fall over or stutter once, although 
I turned all the graphics down to the lower 
options to maintain the better SIM experience. 
The message from me is that if like me you 
only use a laptop you will get on just fine, if 
you have a supercomputer that would make 
NASA jealous then you will love it! 

The choice of models is vast although 
I didn't test them all, just a handful for the 
purpose of this test. The multi-player mode is 
just awesome, you start to feel the pressure 
as you see those other guys, not Al/computer 
models but virtual models being raced 
by actual people. I still find myself being 
pressured into mistakes, but that is the name 
of the game! 

As a sim this is pretty bullet proof and more 
importantly very easy to adopt. 


CONCLUSION 

To be honest my conclusion is that you need to 
get on the VelociDrone website and download 
the trial and quite simply give it a go, and you 
won't be disappointed. If you are a gamer 
plug in your controller, or if you are an RC 
pilot with a transmitter get yourself a dongle 
adapter for £5.50, visit your local hobby 
shop and you are away. If you are like me 
you might want to get a wireless adapter and 
these guys support them all from V-Control to 
the Taranis and of course Spektrum, et cetera. 
If you get the same experience as me you will 
download it and will be hooked. 

Probably most important of all is that since 
having this SIM my FPV times are getting 
quicker and quicker and my accuracy in flight 
is much improved which me getting through 
those gates rather than hitting them and hitting 
them hard! 

These guys have set out to produce an FPV 
racing SIM and that is exactly VelociDrone 
does - it helps you learn to fly FPV and to 
improve your speed. If you want to learn how 
to race this is an awesome choice. 

The team behind this SIM are dedicated to 
improving it and as I understand it they will 
be releasing some big new updates over the 
coming months... ■ 


* Did I say that you get change 
from £20! This has to be the 
best performing and best value 
sim on the market place!... 9 


Contact 

VelociDrone www.velocidrone.com 










TECH INSIGHT 


WHAT’S NEW 


A SELECTION OFTHE LATEST NEW PRODUCTS AIMED ATTHE GROWING DRONE AND MULTI-ROTOR MARKET 



DJI have released a range of has an array of new accessories for their Mavic Pro to make the flight 
experience even more safe, convenient and fun. Ideal for novice operators or those learning to master 
their flying skills, the Propeller Cage provides an extra measure of safety and protection during flight. 
Two new products are designed to shield the Mavic Pro's propellers, providing an extra measure of 
safety and protection during flight. The Propeller Guard places a barrier just around the propellers 
while the Propeller Cage mounts on the Mavic Pro's arms and completely encircles a set of slightly 
smaller 7728 Quick-Release Folding Propellers. The Propeller Cage is ideal for novice operators or 
those learning to master their flying skills. With the additional weight of the Propeller cage, the Mavic 
Pro has a maximum flight time of up to 12 minutes and it is recommended to be flown in Tripod mode 
for better precision and stick control. Both solutions help to protect the aircraft's propellers especially 
in tight spaces and other locations where the Mavic Pro may fly in close proximity of objects. 

Available from: DJI 

Website: www.dji.com 

Contact: Via website 


DJI MAVIC 


PRO PROPELLER CAGE 





DroneZone 


rotoruuorid.co.uk 







THIS IS JUST A 
SMALL SELECTION 
OF THE HIGH QUALITY 
PRODUCTS DISTRIBUTED 
IN THE UK BY 360 RC 
TECHNOLOGIES 


Distributed in the UK market by 
Robbe Schluter UK Ltd T/A 
360 RC Technologies. 

Units Z2 and Z3 Radius Court, 
Maple Drive, Hinckley, 
Leicestershire, LE10 3BE 
Tel: 01455 637151 
Email: keith@robbeuk.co.uk 
Web: www.align.com.tw 



impact resistant aerodynamic shell M R2 5 M R2 

Aorodynamrcally ef frcienl outer shell made with light weight 
impact resistant ARSplastk alloy material. Provides e*tre protec- 
tion white increasing! (light viability. Also features in screw-less 
quick, latch mounting design that is easy, quick, and reliable id; 
battery replacement. Multiple color scheme available tortus- 
to mils don. 


-sc 


% m 



r 

R/ESf 

[RM42S03XT] — Standard Equipment 



IRM42501X T] 


AUW|E*c&gt;u4tf ftiMryj 


AtitvaiftaUMt 

ICKSP MFPS/TMP UflFPi 
SHtMirqiF(U»*l MO V|M 

F mttti ay eis 

input V«ig* 9V 

fov . Lrwttian Du!a 

Memory Cied MKiQ»Q(UK*numl2&lt; 
Vid« Ouieui Form nt W.L.HT sc 


MRS Flight Control 

CPVFiKIHKy BGONZ 



[h C^k ptdyj 


Parameter Settings th 

Setup and flight parameter turn 
nlng an iDS/AndrOid irrurt phm 
can be used to control DU Came 


Bluetooth Function alii 


Bluetooth 4.0 compatibility f&amp;i 
speed transmission. 











ALIGN 







Custom izeable LED 

High intensity LEDs at bottom, motor mounts, and 
back plate. With 256 Colors customizable through 
smart phone app. 



ALIGN 


Brushless Motor 

jjijatv 

-r^-ut Veltagi Jem 
f S^senStMllWl tl 
«*jn*tri Powj ’J 
Su* eJJnSS Jflinr 
is Jg 


DV Camera Gimba! 

rut Angle +■»? 

Torque Ou(M 0 8fcf.ei*[W) 
Rtf*lp*l«l5p«&lt;4 pnew iSV) 

Patfj VoltlB* DV* MV 


Video Transmitter 

rr0n*m«onflF&lt;Mii«nE;y 5 8 S&lt;hi 
T rnmmrttirrfl e*wr&gt;nfis J2 CH 

mpm VoHks t- ijrv bc 

optf Jliraj Cllrint MOnrA i jv 
fran^mittlqH Power ;SmW t JSemW 
iVngm-CI J ff 



IGN 


DV camera gimbat 

Single axis carnet a gimbal to provide camera tiJr- 
irtg angle compensation during high speed flights, 
keeping camera image level with horizon. Tilting 
angle Is also manually adjustable. 


Camera Multi function Settings 

Camera parameters adjustable Through App. 
Example: Image size, shutter speed* apei aiure, ISO. 
White Balance, etc. 


ovr F HD High quality DV video recorder 

' - 1 ■ flecording Modes: 4 Supports Micro SD card (3208) 

10S0P MfpV720P bOfps 5,Mhl USB ’ AV GUT/DC IN ' MRS 

J.Ahotogra phy Mode: 5M piiteEs ^ NT£C 

3.F0VW Degrees, 

Less than S% Image Distortion 


Pointing Anglt: Tmup+20 a 
„ Tie down * 12 s 


') Remote control photo/video function 

Camera shutter and video slartAtop functions can 
be controlled through AC remote. 


ALIGN 



irough App 

ing can be done through apps run- 
no or tablets. In addition, the app 
hra and video recordings. 


ty 

Turing low power long distance high 



ALIGN 



Hold Elevator at end for 0,5 seconds MR25 
will execute fast fprward/reverse (lip 



Hold Ailergn at end for 0.5 seconds, MR35 
will execute fast roll 


Stu nt mode f u nction 

Capable of 3D flips by moving aite ron/elevator 
slick to the end. 



THROUGH THE LENS 


A 


&lt; 



We find some late winter sun to put the Hubsan H502E X4 Desire to the test. 
This GPS-enabled model is feature packed, benefitting from a 720P HD camera, 
six-axis gyro and return-to-home function amongst others 






INSIGHT -Team RGB 




WHO, WHAT AND WHY! 

Recently we saw Chris promoting Team RGB - three 
guys who are loving their drones. They are having 
lots of fun with their self-built drones, learning all the 
intricacies of them along the way. Team RGB came 
about as many good ideas come about - as a joke. 

It was suggested that they could potentially start a 
'drone racing team'. It was laughed off and forgotten 
about. Some months later it was brought up again, 
this time with a little more seriousness and thought. 
Martin Boyce, Nathan Burrows and Chris agreed to 
the project pending some research into which drone 


they should buy. 


WHO IS WHO, AND WHAT DO THEY DO? 

Martin is Red Pilot and brings a plethora of experience 
to the team. Martin has worked in IT for 20 years, 
been a professional photographer for ten years and 
an avid DJI Phantom drone flyer for three. The part 
most relevant is the flying experience. Martin has been 
a proud owner of various DJI Phantom series drones 
and he has hundreds of hours flying them all over the 
world. Using drones to photograph and video many of 
his projects over the years including taking one to New 
Zealand and documenting the journey, flying it around 
the mountains of Scotland and using them to create 
wonderful videos whenever possible. 


f 


u 


JL 


M any drone pilots out there are 

established RC enthusiasts who have 
migrated from other sectors of the hobby 
including surface, helis and planes. The 
Editor at Drone Zone combines this role with heading 
up Racer (RC cars) and Rotorworld (RC helicopter) 
magazines so often sees the same faces pop up, or will 
find a familiar face from another sector now racing a 
quad. Although helicopters and drones share a much 
closer relationship than the surface classes, there are a 
number of car racers who have picked up a drone due 
to the allure of the technical demands, as well as the 
excitement of FPV racing. One of those is Chris Doughty 
- a former European Champion in 1:10 off-road who 
also works for a large RC car brand in the UK. 





The three 
custom 
quad builds 
taking 
shape 


Each of 
the three 
quads 
would use 
a differ- 
ent action 
camera 


There is 
a lot of 
equipment 
required to 
build three 
high-spec 
machines 


FORTHBR love'^^EQ^NOLOG^ ANDT^[^CHAL l£NGE &gt; OF BUK-D1NGTHEIROWN QUADS 


GREEN PILOT 

Nathan is Green Pilot. Nathan works as a Senior 
Software Developer and Database Administrator but 
also has a lot of experience with Raspberry Pi and 
Arduino devices interacting with other networked 
systems. The most relevant skill set that Nathan brings 
to Team RGB is that Nathan has experience with PCB 
soldering which opened-up the range of equipment 
available. The components no longer needed to be 
plug and play - it could be bare-boards ready for 
header pins and wires to be soldered up. 

Nathan's RC experience before Team RGB project 
was absolutely zero and the interest for him was 
primarily the build seeing a disparate bunch of 
electronic components come together to form a break- 
neck-speed flying machine. What Nathan probably 
didn't realise is that it would need flying... so again, 
stick time with VelociDrone simulator was crucial. 


BLUE IS BETTER 

Chris Doughty is Blue Pilot and this is no surprise 
bearing in mind his long-term sponsorship from RC 
electronics gurus LRP in Germany with blue being their 
corporate colour. His background is in surface RC (cars) 
and has some 27 years of experience. Primary racing 
classes have been 1 : 1 0-scale electric off-road and a 
few years racing 1 : 8-scale nitro off-road, but he has 
probably raced all sizes of RC cars at some point. He 
has raced all around the world and achieved some 


Martin also brings a high-end photography skillset 
and huge collection of photography hardware to the 
team. While the team is planning the flight outings he 
is always conscious of how they can be filmed. There 
are always options to the on-board HD camera, using 
360-degree cameras, high-definition ground recording 
equipment and even using the Phantom to film as a 
steady platform in the air. Martin also takes care of the 
teams Facebook page and content for it often comes 
from the material he has compiled. 

While Martin has many hours flying stabilised 
Phantom drones he has never really flown in fully 
manual mode prior to Team RGB. This meant spending 
time on the VelociDrone simulator (see our review 
elsewhere in this issue) to retrain himself to the manual 
control set of the racers. This was then backed up with 
tentative learning flights in real life slowly ramping up 
manoeuvres as his confidence grows. 


/Jiif 


/mm $ 




/f-- &amp; 








, a former British 
RC cars 


The Blue Pilot is Chris Doughty, 
and European Champion racing 


. : 4-Ua roH nil ad 


. LI D nwro who I 


success, in 2002 became European Champion racing 
for his long-term sponsor LRP - a company that he has 
raced for some 1 6 consecutive seasons as a factory 
team driver. 

Chris's day job is also in the RC sector working 
for Arrma Durango Ltd as a project coordinator so 
his experience with RC is quite vast. However, it's 
specifically related to surface vehicles. His experience 
with flight had been a single battery pack with a plane 
(aggressive landing) and a self-stabilising toy helicopter. 

Within Team RGB, Blue Pilot was the go-to guy for 
things specific to RC. The issue was that the experience 
didn't translate exactly to flight RC. And even less so 
with quads! Where are the servos? How does it turn? 
Fortunately, the terminology and principles still applied. 
It just took a bit of searching to find out how these are 
applied in RC flight. 

Though Chris has had 27 years twiddling thumbs to 
control an RC car, taking to the air was not just adding 
a third dimension. It was adding in two more channels 
to the controls - two of them for 'steering'. Both thumbs 
need to work in all directions. And again VelociDrone 
has proven to be fantastic in learning the basic moves 
and flight controls. 

A NEW DRONE CATEGORY 

Over the following months, Team RGB started to 
brainstorm, and discuss the options that lay ahead of 
them. This discussion started with probably the most 
important question of all. What did they want to get 
out of it? In a nutshell, firstly to become increasingly 
better freestyle pilots. Second to film and be creative 
with footage and finally spend time with friends 
doing something fun and challenging. It was deemed 
that racing wasn't really suited to what they wanted 
to achieve so re-categorised themselves to become 
freestyle. 

Initially the team set out to find a drone that suited 
their requirements, but the more they looked the longer 
the list of criteria became. In the end, they came to 
the collective decision that they should build their own 
from components. As none of the team had scratch 
built a drone before it was a little daunting, even 
more so as they were planning on building three. The 
worry amongst the team was that the components 
they purchased might not be compatible or work as 
expected which could be an expensive mistake. So, it 
was decided that a single prototype drone would be 
built, which would be built configured and tested before 
they built all of them. 

With the components selected and the wiring 
diagrams made they spent an afternoon and night 
carefully soldering, checking, connecting, checking, 
assembling, checking, and checking polarity and 
configuration over and over. The first build was a core 
components build only. Just frame, speed controllers, 
power distribution board), motors, flight controller, 
receiver and battery. The installation/test flight (hover) 
was very successful. The quad was rock solid in the 
air and using Angle mode was really manageable 
just using the default PIDs from BetaFlight 3.0.1 - this 
was a huge relief. The single biggest unknown for the 
team was how the stock PIDs would behave with the 
equipment selected. As much as you can read or watch 
on the Internet you never truly know for sure until you 
see it for your own eyes. 

An out of control quad is extremely dangerous and a 
very angry beast so for anyone new to the hobby Team 
RGB have some very important tips: 

■ Always configure your flight controller or speed 

controllers with the props removed 

■ Ensure your fail-safe is set and test this before your 

first flight again with the props off the motors 


■ Double check your speed controller/motor rotations 

and order connected to the flight controller 

■ Double check your prop directions 

With the success of the first build and then ditching it 
while flying line-of-sight we did more research into the 
FPV equipment. All the sim training was done using FPV 
and the goal was always to fly using goggles. But this 
was the area of the hobby that was massively known 
to the team. What camera? What goggles? What 
video transmitter? What aerials? Luckily, the UK Drone 
Show was only a few weeks away so the team headed 


over to broaden their knowledge. As it turns out, it's 
not really that complicated and it seems most things 
work with most things. But the goggles decision is very 
personal and can only really be made by trying them 
for yourself. You have the dual-screen goggles-style like 
the Fat Shark offerings or the screen/box goggles that 
seem to be offered at much more cost-efficient prices. 
During the UK Drone Show the common advice given 
to the team was to find a local FPV flying club/race 
and go along, ask questions and see things for yourself. 
The FPV community is very friendly and welcoming to 
new pilots. 


DroneZone 


rotoruuorld.co.uk 



rotoruuorLdco.uk 


Is the acronym derived from the 
term "First Person View". This style 
of flying has become increasingly 
popular with drones and is the way 
that they are raced where the pilot 
uses goggles or a screen to sees the 
image from a camera located at the 
front of the drone. 

Is the abbreviation for video 
transmitter and has been adopted in 
the same way that many pilots use Tx 
for the transmitter. 

Four electronic speed controls are 
used on a quad; one for each motor. 

The acronym for the power 
distribution board. Just one of these is 
required and as the name suggests, 
supplies the power from the battery 
to all the components that require 
it like the speed controllers, video 
transmitter, receiver, et cetera. 

On Screen Display is text overlay 
that can show various things such as 
flight time, battery voltage or signal 
strength. These can either be built into 
the flight controller or as a separate 
board wired to the FPV camera. 


WHAT IS BETAFLIGHT? 

BetaFlight is the firmware used to setup and controller your quads flight behaviour. It is a software branch of 
CleanFlight and offers lots of cutting-edge features including its own PID loop algorithm. This is where the PID loops 
are tuned that keep your quad stable and responsive in the air. This was chosen by Team RGB because there were 
many reports that the Default PIDs were really close for a 250-size 5-inch prop quad that in reality was very true. For 
the first few weeks the Team RGB quads were flown without any PID tuning and they performed excellently. 

There are many other things configured in BetaFlight, everything from failsafe, telemetry, LED lights, blackbox and 
OSD. Some of those features required certain hardware for built into the flight controller for them to be configured. 

The Flight Controller is the heart of your quad and BetaFlight is a very good Firmware/Software to run on your 
Flight Controller to make sure your quad behaves as it should do when it's in the air. 











WANT TO SEE MORE? 


Team RGB are prominent on Facebook at www.facebook.com/teamrgb/ as well as 
YouTube with their own channel. Either type in https://goo.gl/Jp05Ww or scan the 
enclosed QR code that links directly to the Team RGB YouTube channel. 


CABLE TIES - REALLY? 

During the FPV equipment installation it became height on your first few flights as well as keep your 

apparent that a lot of the race quads have more cable quad in line-of-sight in case you go down. They can 

also help with orientation. 




Have so 


ties than screws compared to the RC vehicles that Blue 


Pi ot was 


used 


And it wa 


always 


Itte 


RGB to 


Red/Gr 


n/Blue stri 


quads shoi 


Id look 


little es 


s a bunch of wires 
stuffed between two sheets of carbon fibre with cab 


ties 


the goal of Tea 


n stead of i 


decided t 


The FPV video feed for most systems is not HD so 
details aren't clear. Itjtakes time to build confidence 
Small branches are invisible until it's too late! 


ULK PUR 


KING 


W th being such a fast-paced developing hobby The proto or first scratch-built quae 


there are no industry standards for mounting a ' 
aerial, FPV camera and HD camera. 

Over the course of a few nights parts were designed 
up to improve durability, stop dirt ingress, add 
functionality and make them look cool. Now the final 
part of that statement is very personal preference. There 
are a lot of purists that concentrate on keeping minimal 
weight, but Team RGB like to do things a bit differently. 

With a freshly build quad with all the FPV gear 
installed it was off to the flying field for the first ever 
real-world FPV experience. Putting the goggles on for 
the first time is incredibly daunting. But the team had 
put the time in on VelociDrone Simulator and after the 
first few flights in Angle mode, they then tentatively 
switched over to Aero mode and soon found the 
simulator work really does pay off. The connection 
between the roll-rates in VelociDrone running BetaFlight 
PID algorithms matched the flight controller's BetaFlight 
roll-rates exactly. The quad behaviour wasn't exact, 
which was to be expected as there was no option to 
choose the Team RGB scratch-build quad in VelociDrone 
so this was understandable. But the other thing that the 
simulator doesn't fully simulate is the fear that a crash 
this time is going to wreck a real quad. The day did 
end-up with a crash - clipping a scraggly branch and 
taking out a prop brought the quad down to earth. 

The most pleasing thing was that after a dust-off (mud 
removal) and new props it was ready to fly again, just 
as perfectly as it flew before. 


ident in the choices 
to order in bulk, 
items as you might imagine and for a lot of components 
its three lots of four - basic maths. Team RGB ordered 
extra speed controllers and motors as pool spares. And 
of course, props, lots of props! 

The Team built the three personal quads with the 
individual components and heavily modified frame and 
custom 3D printed parts with great success. Attention 
to detail and without a single error, all 1 2 speed 
controllers worked as expected, the 1 2 motors worked 
great and the three PDBs and flight controllers worked 
flawlessly. It's safe to say that Team RGB were rather 
proud of their efforts three perfect quads built from 
scratch in a day (and a half!) 

Check out the Facebook page and YouTube channel 
for Team RGB as you see their custom quads take to the 
air, and sometimes the ground. We hope to hear more 
from Team RGB as they share their experiences with us. 

WIDE APPEAL 

It's clear that drones/quads really are accessible for 
anyone. Team RGB has a broad spectrum of diversity 
when it comes to RC experience and the learning curve 
will be different for each member. Each member will also 
get enjoyment from different aspects of the hobby too 
and this goes to show how appealing drones can be. 


TOP FPV TIPS FOR NEW PILOTS 

If you're flying with others, check what bands they are 
using and do not power up your quad while someone 
is in the air. Your VTx could down out their quads video 
signal if the band is close or the same. 

Before you fly, put your goggles on and move your 
quad around by hand to get a feel for how the video 
feed will look. 

Remember exactly where you took off from. Look 
around for reference points that you can use. Getting 
disorientated is very easy 


JARGON BUSTER 

This is a specific function inside your 
flight controller that is responsible for 
stabilising the drone. 


INSIGHT -Team RGB 








ON TEST -Align UK Fun Fly 2016 



First at Manij 

360 RCTECHNOLOGIES HOSTEDTHE FIRST ALIGN UK FUN FLY AT 



MIDLAND HELICOPTER CLUB. WITH PRIZES FOR ALL WETOOK A 


TRIPTOTWYCROSSTO SEE WHAT ALLTHE FUSSWAS ABOUT 


S o you have a range of machines covering pretty 
much every angle from the 1 00 to the 1 50 and 
1 50X, up to the unstoppable T-Rex 700 range 
and now the addition of the Align FPV quad in 
the form of an MR25 - what else can you do? Well hold 
an Align cup to celebrate the range and of course hold 
a race with the MR25. Not a new thing for Align in 
Taiwan, but definitely a new thing for Align in the UK so 
with that in mind we visited the first of many Align UK 
Fun Fly events so sees what was in store. 

THE X MEN 

Align had a busy year in 201 6 and we saw lots of new 
toys including the new X range of helis like the 7 00X, 
the 1 50X, the 550X, and of course other new additions 
such as the 470L, most significant for some is the MR25 
as Align join the quad racing movement with a ready 
to fly FPV racer. 

The Align Fun Fly in the UK was set up to give an 
opportunity for pilots of the Align MR25 a chance to 
race side-by-side in a timed event as well as having lots 


of fun with the other machines along the way. The 
event had three flight lines - a heli flight line to 
fill your boots on single rotors, a novelty flight 
line for balloon popping with a timed even 
and then the FPV racing course ready with 
automatic timing gates. 

Before we go any further it is probably 
worth explaining the MR25 and what it 
actually is. Released at the back end of 
2015 it was Align's long-awaited racing 
quad - a tough market to crack but also 
a market that is growing with interest 
every day, developed to the point that 
there are now even TV sports channels 
showing the events. But there is a problem 
and that is the insane learning curve of set 
up as well as loads of other areas that can 
make it hard to get to grips with. This is where 
Align come in with a working solution right out 
of the box, and if it doesn't work how you want you 
can leave the laptop in the car and tweak the settings 














r 


with your phone. So here is a list of what it has out of 
the box: 

- FPV camera 

- On-board recorder 

- On screen display of key facts like battery voltage 
and status 

- 25mW 5.8GHz video sender or transmitter 

- Bluetooth 

- Options for most receiver types 

- Angle change of camera from the transmitter 

- 3S and 4S compatible motors 

- Updateable firmware 

- Full light kit inbuilt with changeable colours through 
the app 

- Tough plastic shell to protect the core components 


To get one in the air you just need a battery and 
your receiver options wired in, and that's it! Sure you 
can build your own, but to achieve the above would 
cost just as much as one of these cost to buy, especially 
with my dodgy soldering! 

So that is the MR25 in a nutshell. Now combine this 
with identical model with a set of rules around what you 
can change and you now have a standard class and 
the MR25 quad-racing event. I like this attitude and it 
is similar in the RC car world where there are classes 
and events that are created just for set makes and types 
of cars with tight homologation rules in stock classes to 
make sure everyone is on a level playing field, and this 
works really well. 


THE PRIZES 

On offer for prizes were a guaranteed gift for anyone 
that entered and the winners of the MR25 event get an 
invite to the invitation only event help by Align every 
year, this will be some time in 201 7. The novelty event 
was all about pride and a trophy - personally I thought 
that had my name all over it, but it wasn't to be! 



the ground 


There were plenty of challenges for the 


pilots. 1 T5is is the novelty cou|r$e| Wji0ij*ej 
you have to go over the gate and then 
back through it - easier than it looks! 


£JLtGN ’SSTf 


“ - 






rrfti life * ' *' ' * 











I 



Dean “Pepper Pott” Durant trying to figure out how a balloon broke his prop 
in the novelty. I am pretty sure it was the high-speed vertical approach to the 
ground that did it! 


Balloon popping from Midland Helicopters team member Rob Turnbull. 
He is a good 3D heli pilot but he hovered there for five-minutes trying 
to get that balloon! 


THE EVENT 

In the MR25 race event with over 25 pilots registered 
to race and at least three heats of each it meant quite 
some flights and pilots to get through. The 360 RC 
Technologies team were on hand though to keep the 
machine well oiled and to ensure it all ran smoothly. 

This included timing lids, which were basically modified 
MR25 lids with the timing transponders on-board, 
checking channels for FPV goggles to make sure they 
don't overlap and of course rounding up the pilots 
ready to race! 

The track was a series of ten gates and some flags, 
the mission being is to get through the gates that were 
waist height hoops, through flags and back to the 
beginning, of course as fast as possible whilst looking 
through FPV goggles or the FPV screen. You sat in a 


netted area for safety with a caller/spotter behind. I 
say caller because in some cases they needed to shout 
loudly to make sure everyone was on full alert and 
that was it! 

I did actually give it a go and I have to 
say I was pretty rubbish! Whilst I have been 
practising and getting the hang of these 
machines, compared to the top guys I was 
an utter newbie! My first race was with Ant 
Hall and Rob Turnbull of Midland Helicopters | 
fame and we all raced flat out, one by one 
into the first corner, promptly being collected 
by the netting at the back of the turn! It was 
a complex and challenging track that saw the 
top guys getting eight or more laps over the five 
minutes of each race compared to my three! 



Team Midland Helicopters were on hand to fly the flag in great style 


The event also saw 
the helicopter pilots 
get the change to 
show off their skills 


L 






I 



John Nobbs getting some serious angles of attack on the 
www.align-trex.co.uk MR25 


Concentration and patience is the key to winning here. This is Connor 
Henson showing us how 




Aaron Cole behind the sticks of one of the 
Align MR25 drone racers 


— 





The specification of the MR25 quad was 
restricted to ensure a level playing field 


TOP DOGS 

Standing out were three very competent pilots who 
were Keshav Mongia from align-trex, Russell Cleaver 
and Andrew Knight. These three were all on fire - 
the speed they went through those gates just a few 
centimetres off the floor was insane, and I mean insane. 
This had to be seen to be believed, all with standard 
Align MR25 kits other than two things. They were all 
equipped with the bigger Align motors and they were 
running a different camera - the only modifications that 
were allowed. The results saw these pilots take the top 
spots overall... 

What was great about this was the fact there were 
people of all standards participating. I am quite willing 
to say I was one of the slower on the day, but we all 
have to start somewhere and it was lots of fun. I can 
say that we laughed and we laughed hard. One thing 
it did do was spur me on to pull my finger out and 
practise; seeing these guys racing flat out inches off the 
deck was that impressive and I need to be able to do it! 
So this time next year I want to give them a run for their 
money. Or at least get to four laps without binning it! 

THE NOVELTY 

If you have not heard of this type of event before it is 
one that is fun for anyone that can fly, you don't need 
to be on it just to have some accuracy with line of 
sight flying, so no FPV goggles and a little bit of 
patience! The novelty event involved popping 
two balloons that were on stands at various 
heights from ankle to waist height, you 
then had to fly around a flag and 
back through a gate, then coming 
back to pop another two balloons 
and then on to the finish box. It 
seemed simple and should have 
been but with the pressure of the 
stopwatch many people found it a 
challenge. No MR25s were harmed 
during the process but a number of 
balloons took a hit as did a number of 
egos, one of which was mine. Trevor 
Wallinger from Midland Helicopters 
won the overall event, but he was pretty 
much a pro at this stuff! He has around ten 
years of practice at this type of event with 
his brother Keith, back in the day of the Robbe 
Schluter Cup, which by modern standards was a 
mental task of flying an RC heli around a course that 


involved a figure of eight slalom, taking in as many 
as possible in one minute then knocking bottles off 
a 50-gallon oil drum. Next was the pylon lift, which 
involved lifting an object off a tower with the skids and 
dropping it outside of an area - that was carnage! The 
MR25 novelty event was tame in comparison, but a 
blast - definitely fun for all and something anyone could 
have a stab at. 

SUMMING UP 

I love these kind of events! A fun-filled flying day with 
lots and lots going on. There were people flying heaps 
of RC helis, people wetting themselves whilst popping 
balloons and of course the insane racing that went 
on around the MR25 track. The day was definitely a 
success with lots of fun had by all. 

We are assured that there will be another one 
in 2017 may be even a couple which would be 
awesome. Well done to Stuart Mott, Keith Wallinger, 
Rich Mott and the rest of the team for organising the 
event - the first one is always tough. Also well done to 
Russell and Andy for some epic flights and fights on 
the track. ■ 




ON TEST -Align UK Fun Fly 2016 























ON TEST - Blade Theory X 


I 




A sk any flying modeller what Horizon Hobby 
offer and I would guess that 99 per cent 
would answer RTF (Ready-To-Fly), BNF 
(Bind-N-Fly) models and Spektrum radios. 

I have owned quite a few Horizon Hobby brand 
models over the years and every one did what it said 
on the box! Buying something you have to build up as 
opposed to just bung a battery in and fly, I believe is 
a great addition direction and should bring in a new 
breed of customer. And what we have here is one of 
the new Theory X range of quads that are currently 
available in three sizes - the 1 70, 1 95 and 220. 


HORIZON EXPLAINS 

"The Blade Theory X Frame Kits are designed for durability simplicity, and speed. Constructed 
exclusively for racing t, the assembled kit containing composite plates and all recommended equipment 
has a flying weight of only 400-450g. The airframe features multiple motor mounting holes to fit a 
variety of motors and the cover plate includes cut outs for a variety of connectors and video transmitter 
as well as the XT60. The camera mount is highly adjustable and can angle from 45- to 90-degrees. 
Advanced FPV pilots and those experienced in building quadcopters from scratch , will appreciate 
the compact design featuring enough room for all electronics and a GoPro camera. Its true X design 
provides an excellent feel in the air with more agility , the opportunity to hit top speeds and the ability 
to reach the finish line first." 



NOW LETS LOOKpLT WHY THE THEORY X 
IS OFFERED IN THREE DIFFERENT SIZES... 

Theory X 170 - the advantages of using a smaller, 

4-inch propeller racer is agility. A smaller profile means 
you can turn and corner much faster around flags and 
gates in a race, a significant advantage over other 
sizes in a tighter, more technical race course. 

Theory X 195 - sitting in the middle of this range this 
version offers a compromise between the advantages 
of the 1 70 and 220 frames, designed for 5-inch props 
and makes a good all round racer. 

Theory X 220 - the larger profile of this frame is built 
to host 6-inch propellers that produce much more thrust 
et-ups (with the correct motors), 
yirijcjjrners as the 4-inch, this version 
in the straightaways with 


he Theory X frame series are: 

compact frame design is open 
»nics easily within a condensed 

I 1 

motor mounting 
rs with 1 6-1 9mm motor 



ingenious top stack was 
FpdHero 3 or 4 with a single 
irframe with the 

pie FPV camera mount allows 
ig you to choose just 

me featuring a 
ixceptional durability 


The carbon frame is a great piece of work and 
accurately machine 


..it to be really picky then 
o you could lightly sand 
carbon dust is evil so take 
ions. I decided not to use the 
[Power Distribution Board) as my 
Diatone V8.3. This additionally 
the video transmitter and 
clean low ripple power supply) and 
onic speed controller signal wires to be 
the board. All you then need to do is solder 
bbon cable to your flight controller; 



neat install - have a look at the 
ih jotok Preferably use rounded screws 
ilia rs as there could be a possibility of 
Itjxlamaging the LiPo. My OCD kicked 
green mounting pillars and 
'-rings to match the green 
^[wouldn't say this is over the top, 

tape to hold the 
nto the arms so I slid some 
before mounting the motors, 
ed 2205-2350Kv Scorpion motors come 
[ c i bcfk wise and counter clockwise pair so make 
sure you mount them correctly to coincide with the 
output mapping of the flight controller. Again I used 


the 


recor 


npai 


perfec 


capability 


ff|e|^le|ef|T|^us^ 20A BL Heli Opto electronic 


&gt;acjt, 

ict fo 


:ontrollers (with Active Dampening activated); 
low profile and only weighing 6.8g are 
writing on the arms. With a 25A burst 


TB 

they 


ley are more than capable of running a 4S 
set-up with 5x4 Tri Blade props - that basically equates 
to oads of pn war n n tnp for the Theory X. I've never 


usedlEB/ LiPos before so thought it would be a great 
•ortunity to tr v |3ijie|. I w ent for a Thrust 1 300m Ah 
Horizon Hobby. Basically HV 


°PP ( 

4S 


65C 


ailab 


from 




I always like this 
part of any quad 
build - the pile 
of bits 


The frame goes 
together in no time 
and provides a very 
solid platform to 
hang all the other 
components off 


A new thing for me - 
HV LiPos can provide 
greater endurance 
and motor power 


Auto-binding satellite receiver 
what a brilliant idea and makes 
things easier. Worth buying if 
you are a Spektrum user 





The Diatone V8-3 PDB offers loads of 
connectivity for little money and 
helps keep things tidy 



I would suggest using low profile round 
headed screws to fix the PDB mounting 
pillars in order to prevent any potential 
damage to the LiPo 


DroneZone 



rotorujorld.co.uk 


-• 



Features at a glance... 


• Composite airframe featuring a solid 4mm main plate 
provides exceptional durability while maintaining a 
lightweight profile 

• Extreme simplicity in design which not only keeps the 
airframe lightweight overall, it makes building a breeze 

• Multiple motor mounting holes to fit a variety of 
motors. 1 6-1 9mm motor mount support 

• The top stack includes convenient cut outs for a variety 
of video transmitters and cameras 

• The ingenious top stack was designed to hold a GoPro 
Hero 3 or 4 with a single strap allowing you to have a 
race airframe with the ability to run an HD camera 

• The simple FPV camera mount allows for angles up 
to 90-degrees allowing you to choose just how fast 
you want to go 

• The extremely tough bottom plate provides an XT60 
connector cut out for mounting your battery lead to 
prevent prop strikes in air 

• The compact frame design is open enough to place 
electronics easily within a condensed profile 


2205-2350Kv Scorpion motors provide 
ample power to make the Theory 
X scream around the sky 


Flight controller in position. 
Don’t forget to orientate it 
correctly otherwise you will 
have additional setting up 
to do in CleanFlight 


LiPo cells can be charged to a value of 4.35V per 
cell as opposed to the 4.2V of a regular cell and this 
equates to higher motor RPM and longer flight times, 
but needs a suitable charger with the special HV profile 
to benefit from them. You can still charge and use a 
regular charger but loose the advantage they offer as 
they will only charge up to 4.2V. You must never mix 
HV and standard LiPos, even of the same cell count and 
capacity when parallel charging or you could end up 
with a fire! 

When soldering the electronic speed controllers to 
the motor, don't forget to check they spin correctly. I 
always soft mount my electronic speed controllers to the 
frame using a piece of self-adhesive foam under them 
to provide some vibration isolation. No tie wraps are 
necessary as when you have slid over the heat shrink 
and shrunk it they won't be going anywhere. 

The recommended flight controller (FC) is the Naze32 
Rev 6; I can understand why Horizon Hobby specifies 
this as it has dedicated pads to fix a Spectrum satellite 


onto. Personally I prefer the newer F3 boards, but 
saying that the recommended board won't disappoint, 
unless you are wanting absolute performance and are 
a pilot capable of benefiting from it. Refer to the photos 
to see how I connected the FC to the PDB. Don't forget 
to wire the plugs for the XT60, video transmitter and 
camera before fixing the FC in place as it will prove a 
little tricky otherwise. To provide some strain relief on 
the soldered wires I put a blob of canopy glue (similar 
to PVA) on them so they were anchored to the circuit 
board. It would be wise to check it all works first though! 

My method of securing the XT60 to the frame was 
to use one of the small PCBs that were popular a few 
years ago. Again if you refer to the relevant photo you 
can see how I did it as I wasn't keen just to have it 
floating or glued in place. 

TRANSMITTERS AND RECEIVERS 

I used an Eachine 25mW video transmitter as it was 
going spare and have worked well for me in the 


past. Because it uses a push button as opposed to dip 
switches to change channel it offers greater flexibility 
when mounting: Tie-wrapped in place as shown with 
a 90-degree converter to allow the antenna to mount 
vertically. My camera was an old but reliable Fat Shark 
600TVL and fit perfectly; when installed don't forget to 
check the focus as you have to remove the lens when 
fixing it on the carbon plate. The Theory X frame design 
allows plenty of protection to the FPV camera so you 
will have to try really hard to damage it when you 
crash out. 

I also tried the new auto-bind Spektrum satellite 
receiver; these are brilliant and save all the faffing 
around of binding it to a standard receiver first when 
using this option on your FC. Another benefit of the 
extended antennae is you can get the active portion 
clear of the frame to maximise the reception range. 

I used to modify standard satellites, but not any more 
as these new ones are worth the extra cost in time 
saving alone. 



Camera and electronic speed controller pass My solution to fix the XT60. Go the whole 


Carbon mountin' 


through leads hog and get a black connec to r instead of the -Af-GoProkHf- 


ir can be fixed above it 


use electrical tape to hold the ESCs in posi- more usual yellow one 


tion, but heat shrink tubing is neater 


Just one tie wrap is all that’s needed to lo- 


camera. 


mountii 


adapter so I coul&lt; 


:e the video transmitter. I would addition 


position 


shown 


ally mount it on a small piece of servo 

iJ^i Jm .Li. “ - “ *1 - I - 


provide a 


vibration 


isolation 





Contact: 

Horizon Hobby UK 
Units 1-4 
Ployters Road 
Staple lye 
Southern Way 
Harlow 
Essex 

CM18 7NS 

Tel: 01279 641097 

E-mail: sales@horizonhobby.co.uk 

Website: www.horizonhobby.co.uk 


rotorujorl 


Specification 

Diameter: 195mm (between motor centres) 

Flying Weight: 400-450g 

Maximum Prop: 5-inch 

HD Camera: GoPro 3/4 

FPV Camera Mount: Clamp-style 

Airframe weight: 105g 

FC Mounting: 30.5mm 

RRP: £54.99 


I left the flight 
controller PIDs as 
supplied and it 
flew great. It 
will benefit 
from a little 
further 
tuning, but 
1 was very 
impressed 


The Eachine video transmitter uses a push 
button for channel changing. On-board LEDs 
let you know what channel you’ve picked 


Using the new Spektrum autobind satellite 
receiver keeps the radio installation easy 


: a 


TIME TO FLY 

It was a pleasure putting this quad together; everything 
was a perfect fit with no modifications necessary. The 
finished product is very rigid, well designed and has 
ample space for all the bits. If you used a traditional 
sized receiver then the video transmitter would probably 
need relocating from where I fixed mine, but it will all fit 
as long as the installation is planned out. No gripes, but 
including the PCB I used to fix the XT60 in position - an 
inexpensive addition - would be good. All in all a very 
well thought out and produced quad. 

Leaving the PIDs as supplied it flew great, locked in 
but still responsive. The recommended power system 
was not lacking and provided all the performance my 
fingers and brain could cope with. I will tweak things 
a little especially the yaw as I like this to be set to 
insane and up the RC rate but other than that I'm very 
pleased with my Theory X and it's great to see Horizon 
Hobby offering products of this calibre. When I heard 
they were going to be selling this type of quad set-up 
my initial thoughts were they were just jumping on the 
bandwagon; I was very wrong and they have done an 
excellent job. I'm looking forward to future releases. ■ 


Frame Pricing... 


BLH9450 Blade Theory X 1 95 Kit £54.99 

BLH9440 Blade Theory X 1 70 Kit £51 .99 

BLH9460 Blade Theory X 220 Kit £74.99 


Suggested Component Guide... 


SPM4648 Spektrum FPV Racing Receiver 

BLHA1005 2205-2350KV Scorpion Motor (2) 

BLHA1006 20A ESC BL Heli Opto Quad Pack 

SPMFC3206 FC32 Rev 6 Flight Controller 

SPMVX9909 

Power Distribution Board with 5V and 1 2 V Regulator 

SPMVC650 650TVL CCD FPV Camera 

SPMVT200 200mw 5.8GFIz Video Transmitter 

IRLSN5G8RHSET SpiroNet 5.8GHz RHCP Ant Set (2) 

BLHA1003 5x4 FPV Race Propeller Green 3 Blade 

EFLRB13004S35 Thrust Battery 1300mAh 4S 

v ' 


ON TEST - Blade Theory X 





Drone Zone Visits. . .. 


Flying Drones Ltd 

IN OUR OCCASIONAL SERIES WHERE OURTEAM VISITS A BIG NAME IN THE HOBBYTOM STACEY TOOK ATRIP 
ON A COLD WINTER AFTERNOON TO FLYING DRONES LTD; A DISTRIBUTOR FOR DJI PRODUCTS IN THE UK 



T was the night before Christmas... Well, 

not quite, but four days before the big day 
and on what couldn't be a busier day for 
a major distributor of one of the holiday 
season's most wanted products, we took a trip to 
darkest Essex to visit David Taub and his showroom 
at Flying Drones Ltd. 

David has been around our hobby for many 
years, but four years earlier set-up Flying Drones to 
distribute DJI products, then a growing star in the 
hobby, and now of course arguably the biggest 
name in UAV technology in the world, rivalling 
firms like Uber for valuation. David has seen 
business grow from strength to strength and when 
we caught up with him at DJI's UK launch of the 
Inspire 2 and Phantom 4 Pro, he invited us down to 
see his showroom and talk drones! 

With a number of very large retail names in the 
drone industry, David has also supplied product 
to events like the UK Drone Show and blue-chip 
customers including Panasonic. Supporting events 
and people who help publicise the hobby is a big 
focus for David and it's good to see people like this 
who see the social benefits of raising the profile and 
improving the reputation of UAV flight in the UK. 

FOOD FOR THOUGHT 

Over a cup of tea and a mince pie, we were 
shown around the Mavic Pro, and were very 
tempted to try it in the car park - this tiny new 
drone from DJI offers pro-level features in a 
package as small as a water bottle. Make sure you 
read the our in-depth review of the Mavic Pro in 
this issue to get all the details. At the other end of 
the spectrum was the Matrice M600 with Ronin MX 
gimbal and DSLR camera. The M600 is an absolute 
beast, and probably the biggest drone we've ever 
seen, yet David said it flies as smooth as a Phantom 
in the air supported by full compatibility with the DJI 
Go app and faultless HD video streaming. In the 
middle is the latest Phantom 4 Pro that we did get a 
go of and can only report that this moves the game 
on yet again for DJI - the camera quality is nothing 
short of breath-taking. 

SALES AND SUPPORT 

Flying Drones of course only sell to the industry, 
but as a wholesale partner, we couldn't imagine 
you'd want any more - David is incredibly 
knowledgeable, and is a real RC guy too as you 
could see by the impressive collection of 600-size 
helis on his bench. It's good to think that our 
industry is supported in this country by a company 
that are keen to remove barriers to the hobby and 
promote responsible usage of UAVs in the UK. 

Oh, and the mince pies were pretty good 
too - if you're one of Flying Drone's customers, 
you'll know what we mean! If you are interested in 
stocking DJI products or have a trade enquiry then 
you can contact David on 01 279 718111 or by 
e-mailing info@flying-drones.co.uk ■ 














THE HUBSAN PRODUCT RANGE COVERS A WIDE SPECTRUM FROM 
‘TOY-GRADE' MINI QUADCOPTERSTHROUGHTOO PROFESSIONAL, 



H ubsan are very well known and respected 
brand when it comes to Drones and 
quadcopters. The style of their products 
makes them instantly stand out and is 
matched by the quality throughout their entire range. 
The new Hubsan H502E makes the step up from the 
lower priced, entry-level models and contains a number 
of features usually seen on higher priced 'hobby grade' 
quads. One of the main talking points of the H502E 
when it was announced was the fact it features GPS 
technology and return to home functions. This is a first 
for this type of quadcopter in this price range. 


WHAT'S IN THE BOX? 

For just over one hundred English pounds (although it 
is possible to buy it cheaper if you shop around) you 
are awarded with a cool, futuristic looking quadcopter 
fully assembled (minus props) and Ready-To-Fly. A 
PlayStation-style 2.4GHz transmitter with LCD is also 
included along with a 7.4V 610mAh LiPo battery 
and USB charger. This RTF package also includes 
eight propellers (two spare for clockwise and counter 
clockwise), a small screwdriver to attach them with 
and some spare screws. A small, yet highly informative 
instruction manual included will help you with 


everything you need to know for your first flight. First 
impressions are good and right from opening the box 
you can see the effort and quality that Hubsan are 
renowned for. 

PACKED WITH FEATURES! 

One of the main features of the H502E is the GPS 
technology installed. Not only does this allow the quad 
to return from its take off point, but it also incorporates 
a failsafe feature so that if signal is lost from the 
transmitter, it will automatically return back. The Return- 
To-Home (RTH) function can be activated via a single 


SO 







press of a button on the transmitter. 

Another key feature of this quad is the on-board 
720P HD camera located at the front. This enables 
you to take pictures and record videos of your 
flight, again from a button on top of the transmitter. 
When used, beeps confirm when a picture or video 
has been captured. We took some good footage 
during our test flights and although the pictures 
were not of a GoPro quality standard, you are still 
rewarded with some nice shots and videos of your 
flights to watch back. 





» 



fffffffff 


EASY TO FLY 

The X4 Desire flies with the aid of altitude mode which 
in simple terms will keep the quad level and hovering 
without any input from the transmitter (once you have 
taken off that is). This feature helps with inexperienced 
pilots, as they are able to concentrate of the pitch and 
roll controls operated by the aileron stick. 

There are two separate flight modes to choose from 
which can be changed during flight. The quad will 
automatically start up in Normal Mode, but by pressing 
the aileron stick down for a couple of seconds enables 
the Expert Mode with livens up the responsiveness of 
the quad making it more of a challenge to fly. 

One of the biggest problems for inexperienced pilots 
is losing orientation when in flight -which direction is 
the front facing? With the majority of quads symmetrical 
in looks, LED lights underneath usually determine which 
is the front and back, although they are hard if not 
impossible to see from any distance. The H502E has 
these lights on the underside of the arms, but it also 
features Headless Mode, again operated by a press of 
the stick on the transmitter. Hubsan making sure they 
cater for all levels of experience giving the H502E a 
potentially wider market. 

PRE-FLIGHT CHECKS 

Although this quad is packaged as Ready-To-Fly you will 
need four AAA-size batteries for the transmitter and a 
4GB microSD card if you wish to capture pictures and 
videos of your flights from the on-board camera. Like 
the majority of quads on offer, some small assembly 
steps are required and this is in the form of attaching 
the four, 5-inch props. These are secured to the motors 
by small screws that are included along with a small 
Philips screwdriver and most importantly some spare 
screws. The props themselves are clearly labelled up 


with the letters A and B that match the ones on the 
corresponding arms of the quad. The props also feature 
a locating slot to help them sit firmly on the spline of the 
brushed motors. 

ON TEST 

The included 7.4V 610mAh LiPo battery takes around 
40-minutes to charge from the included USB charger 
and locates nicely into its allocated compartment at the 
back of the main body, although you need to make sure 
the leads stay clear of the hatch fastening. 

We opted for our local recreation ground for its 
maiden flight and had lots of room to test the X4 Desire 
to its full potential. With transmitter on and the battery 
installed, the first thing to do before flying off is to 
calibrate the GPS compass by performing a number of 
vertical and horizontally turns holding the quad. This is 
important if the RTH function and/or failsafe is used. 

To arm the quad both sticks are pulled to the lower, 
outer position, this sets all four props into motion so you 
are ready to fly. Only a small amount of movement on 
the elevator stick is required to get the quad in to the 
air. The elevator stick is sprung loaded so will always 
return to the centre, which takes a little getting used to if 
you are a competent flier already. The altitude function 
is fantastic and the Hubsan will sit happily at whatever 
height you chose. It's so stable that we were even able 
to take some of the in-flight action shots. 

Although sporting four brushed motors, the X4 Desire 
is a nimble and fast quad to fly around. It will gain 
altitude very quickly and fly away from you at speed. 
This definitely makes it suitable for outdoor use only 
unless you have a large indoor space to fly in. 

During our first flight we took numerous photos and 
videos whilst flying around. All the function buttons are 
very easy to locate so no need to rake your eyes of 




The on-board 720p HD camera sits up front 


DroneZone 


rotorajorid.co.uk 



2 

To the side there is a microSD card slot to 





LED lights are included underneath 
the arms 


The battery compartment is accessed 
from the rear of the drone 


DroneZone 


rotorujorld.co.uk 


ON TEST - Hubsan H502E X4 Des 






It’s easy to make sure that the correct prop is fitted to the corresponding motor as Hubsan mark them clearly. Each prop is secured to the 
shaft using the included screw and tool 


Hubsan H502E X4 Desire 


Specification: 

Width: 

165mm 

Height: 

60mm 

Length: 

165mm 

Weight: 

1 20g (without battery) 

Battery: 

61 OmAh 7.4V 15C LiPo 

Features: 

What's in The Box: 

- 720P HD Camera 

- H502E quadcopter 

- Headless flight mode 

- 2.4GHz transmitter 

- Altitude height mode 

-61 OmAh 7.4V 2S LiPo battery 

- GPS return to home 

- Eight propellers 

■LED lights 

- USB charger and lead 

- Six-axis gyroscope 

- Screwdriver plus spare screws 


- Instruction manual 


RRP: £109.99 


UK Distributor: 

CML Distribution 

E-mail: 

info@cmldistriution.co.uk 

Website: 

www.cmldistribution.co.uk 

Tel: 

01527 575349 

Manufacturer: 

Hubsan 

Website: 

www.hubsan.com 






ON TEST - Hubsan H502E X4 Desire 


the quad at all and we managed some get some good 
footage. The LCD on the transmitter gives plenty of 
information including the number of satellites it is locked 
onto. A minimum of six is required for the failsafe to 
function correctly. Another useful display is the battery 
status of both quad and transmitter. 

We had around 1 2 minutes of flight time, which 
is pretty reasonable from the included battery. On a 
separate outing we managed to test the RTH function 
that worked perfectly. The H502E is a very enjoyable 
quad to fly, easy to use and despite its smaller size it 
manages to battle against light to moderate breezes 
remarkably well. 

The 14-years plus age limit recommended to operate 
the quad may be a little cautious as our newest recruit 
to the Drone Zone flying school was able to happily 
control the quad despite only being eight-years-old, 
obviously with adult supervision. Overall we were very 
impressed with the Hubsan H502E and look forward 
too many more flights with it. 

SUMMARY 

The Hubsan X4 Desire is a very good quadcopter and 
includes a host of features that will entertain people 
who want a little more than your average toy grade 
has to offer. It is very simple to use, great fun to fly 
and looks pretty cool as well. We would recommend 
a purchase of a couple of spare LiPos if funds allow 
so you can enjoy more flight time, these are readily 
available along with spare parts from UK stockists. ■ 




»irnpie 10 use, great fun to fly 
and looks pretty cool as well...* 


r 






' PV-EQUIPPED 

: m r m # 


Not Such a Ne\ 


as you will have seen from 


the previous four articles, 


our own Shaun Taylor - the 


UK version -has seen his 


flying and knowledge come 


on in leaps and bounds. 


In part five of Diary of a 


Newbie, Shaun heads down 
the custom build route. 


DJI Fest - in the next issue we have a double dose of DJI 
products with reviews of the two latest Chinese products in the 
Phantom 4 Pro and Inspire 2. These new items are so in demand 
that we only had them for seven days, but we sure made use of 
the flying time available as you will find out in issue 1 1 . 







.99 


in store online mobile 


Scorpion Sky 
Stricter 280 

FPV Racing Quad Frame 

now only 


great 


Huge selection of 

helicopters and quads., j 


seruice 


great 


price 


your 
□ne stap 

drone 

shop! 


J drnnes 


quads 


multirDturs 


fpv racers 


Align MR25 Breakthrough 

Racing Quad Innovation 


M call: 01455 637 762 

www.modelhelicoptef5.co.uk 

4 


Monday to Friday 9:00 am • 5:30 pm 
(closed for lunch 12:30-1 :30) 

Thursday late night until - 8:00 pm 
Saturday 1 2:00 pm • 5:00 pm, 

Sunday Closed 


Midland Helicopters Ltd 

Unit 11, Newton Road, Harrowbrook Industrial 
Estate, Hinckley, Leicestershire, LE10 3DS 


jmr 

m 


The British Model Flying Association 

mm jHr f Jk Wr 

Protecting and promoting 
UK model flying for over 



90 years. 


BMFA 


£25 Million liability cover 

for all lawful recognised 

model flying activity as standard. 


You can take out 2017 Membership from the 1 st December , 
Please check the web-site or contact the office for the 2017 fees. 



‘Membership year runs from 1 st December 2016 - 31st December 2017. 



BMFA, Chacksfield House 
3 1 St Andrews ; ,Road, Leicester, 
LE2 8RE 
T:0l 16 2440028 
E: admin@bmfa.org 

www.bmfa.org 






ON TEST - Flyduino KISS Flight Controller 



SHAUN GARRITY GETS HIS 
HANDS ON THE LATEST 
KISS FLIGHT CONTROLLER 
FROM FLYDUINO DESIGNED 
BY FELIX NIESSENTO SEE IF 
ALLTHETALK OF IT BEING 
“SUPER SIMPLE" ARE TRUE 


Flyduino were ahead of the curve producing 
the Flydumini 200 sized quad years ago 
however suitable props and motors were 
thin on the ground back then 


F lyduino are a German multi-rotor specialist 

and have been around a lot longer than many 
modellers appreciate. Started in 201 1 by Paul 
Bake they provided a range of DIY frame and 
flight controller (FC) components for the enthusiast. Back 
then you basically had two affordable choices for your 
FC; a DIY Arduino Multi Wii-based one (the kids were 
never happy when I repurposed their Nintendo Wii 
console controllers for components) or the KK originally 
designed by Rolf Bakke (KapteinKUK) ready-made 
version. Both used multiple gyros (similar to the type 
found in heli gyros) to provide the stability necessary in 
order for you to be able to control your flying bedstead. 
Flyduino designed and sold FC printed circuit boards 
known as "shields" plus all the additional components 
so you could easily construct this vital part. 

PARTNERSHIP 

Working with Paul was an exceptionally skilled quad 
pilot who went under the name of Warthox. It really 
is worth checking out his videos on the web as he 
was performing seemingly impossible line of sight 
aerobatics back then with very basic flight controllers 
- no air mode and high-speed processors just an 
inordinate amount of piloting skill and understanding 
how they responded to control inputs. Oh and a great 
talent for tweaking the parameters to tune his quads 
to within an inch of their life. In the early days auto- 
levelling, GPS return to home, head free and the like 
were not available, just effectively Aero mode. 

Although there were many sources for frame 
components and shields, I always used Flyduino 
products for good reason - they were great quality and 
fairly well priced. It wasn't a problem that they were 
in Germany as Paul and his staff had an excellent 
command of the English language, delivery was quick 


and no more expensive than from the UK. As 
things developed, Flyduino always kept up 
with the latest trends and components. Mini 
quads are not new; the 200mm Flydumini 
is over four years old. The shield was also 
the frame and you built the flight controller 
onto it - pretty revolutionary in the day. The 
only real issue was the lack of range of 
suitable motors and props - not something 
we have to worry about today. In one of my 
quads I still use their now last generation, 
old school Nano-Wii flight controller based 
on the ATmega32u4, which is the processor 
of the Arduino Leonardo and incorporates the 
brilliant MPU-6050 chip, a combined gyro and 
ACC (accelerometer for the auto levelling function). 

KISSES FOR YOU 

The KISS (Keep It Super Simple) flight controller was 
designed for mini quads by Felix Niessen and Flyduino 
describe it as follows: 

"This F3, 32bit flight controller and accompanying 
firmware were designed and built with simplicity 
in mind. Both creations strive to be as minimalist 
as possible , thus providing the user with one of the 
quickest configurations/setups prior to getting their 
multi-rotor airborne. The flight controller's firmware 
is custom made by Felix Niessen titled " KISS FW". 

The KISS Firmware features Felix's custom "KISS PID 
Controller" and a fixed loop-time of 980Hz." 


The frame was also the flight controller 
circuit board. Built using an Arduino micro- 
processor, accelerometer and gyro module 
repurposed from a Wii games controller 


rotoruuorld.co.uk 






KISS Flight Controller, ESCs and Carrier system. 
The optional ribbon connector saves soldering a 
number of esc and telemetry wires 



Underside of the Carrier. 
When installing in a 
carbon frame make sure 
nothing can short out on it 


The Kiss Carrier with two of the 
four KISS 24A ESCs soldered in 
place and the third ESC positioned 
ready to be done 

• 


-• 


-• 


SPECIFICATIONS 

It supports tri, quad +/x, hex +/x frames and a vast 
range of receiver options; PPM Sum, Spektrum Satellite 
(serial/DSM2 and DSMX), Futaba/Taranis SBUS, Jeti 
ExBus, Graupner SumD/SumO, Multiplex and classic 
receivers with individual channel outputs so pretty much 
everything is covered. The processing is achieved by 
an STM32 F3 MCU with the well proven and regarded 
combined MPU-6050 Gyro/ ACC. Having an on-board 
BEC allows the KISS FC to be powered directly from 
a 2S to 6S LiPo and provide power for your receiver 
as well and very important for the careless, reverse 
polarity protection. 

Another useful feature is it also supports telemetry 
data from the KISS, Race Edition 24A electronic speed 


controllers allowing you to monitor temperature, current 
and voltage, great if you tend to push the envelope, but 
don't want any magic smoke to appear. The KISS FC 
is as the name implies - super simple. No barometer, 
mag (compass) or on-board flash memory or black box. 

SUPER SIMPLE SET UP 

I would guess all quad racers are familiar with 
CleanFlight (CF) or BaseFlight (BF) for setting up their 
flight controllers. One of the main reasons for the rapid 
development of these utilities is they are "open source" 
and this has up and down sides. Upside - more 
features and configurable parameters than you can 
poke a stick at and for some this is utopia. Downside - 
for others pages of options are a source of dread and 


the lack of familiarity a reason for badly set up multi- 
rotors. Also due to rapid development frequent updates 
can be very frustrating. 

The KISS firmware is "closed source" so all 
development is controlled by Flyduino. The interface 
has been pared down to offer just the features required 
for a small sport, freestyle or racing quads. One great 
feature of CleanFlight is a Chrome App configurator 
and KISS also has this feature. Another plus is the 
facility to use pre-set PIDs from a library. This can 
provide a good starting point, but remember you 
ideally need to have the same or very similar motor/ 
prop/LiPo/frame type. However, you may be surprised 
just how well your quad will fly on the default ones; I 
certainly was but more of that later. 


DroneZone 


rotorujorld.co.uk 






THE KISS CARRIER AND SPEED 
CONTROLLERS 

A iJiuke of genius; I kwe near i nsJqll-s and thi* 
integrated FDB (power diUrrbulton bogidf, C^trgnic 
speed conrirofleti und Flight controller caviar allows 
[usf ihat. Now clearly ir won'l wart for X Frame* 
unless »hey are on the target tide bin for H hame* 
il'* perkci i kid a *pare RaOC-w Dog Injme; ir'm a 
lightened roc mg version cl ihe 200H and 

even better, ir K* one of rf» vary First Frame* designed 
to accommodate ihe KISS Came* system You need to 
u» ihe KISS 24A electronic speed cwnraJkn a* rhe 
COrriaf i j ipeeifiedV dftjigntd br lhem. bul ihftrn tn* 
soove impressive advantages lo be gained They run in 
additkm to fWM, Oneshal 1 25, Grteihot 42, the latest 
digital parallel protocol D-Shol |if you have Ihe corrad 
ydtware on the FC and electronic Jtwed controller) 
and is'* outo detected. Able ro run or 24A comteuovsly 
even when poorly cooled they have over temperature 
protection jusl in cose you push the envelope and a 
very Tgsl shrortle re*pame Besf of all is the ease you 
ren revise mgtor dirgtkion g* gll ygu need to dp a 
bridge a couple of PCB pads with a trey blob of raider 
The electronic speed controllers ore ready to go and 
don'i need lo be calibrated. 

The electronic speod controller* can only “fit correctly 
an rite co mar one wcy so il’s delTiciitl lo mesa up 


soldering them in place unless you Bry reafly hard. The 
solder pads for ihe tekmeiry and signal (FW^| are 
*mgllef than flto motor gnd power pod* «? need a 
linln bJtita core. You can Dinned the FC to the FOB by 
bond wiring ir but Far a lew pounds flyduino provide a 
mulN-ptn cable that takes care ai ihe four FWlWi signal 
feed* and rite telemetry; rite only otheF connection* 
neaestory are for lb# power kg the FC - 1 used a couple 
ol angled pins soldered unde* ihn FC and u JST plug 
on the carrier making rbe FC easily removable iF ever 
required. To help cut down ao any ipotonlial transmiFted 
vtbratton I used *onvg sa+f rubber 0*ing&amp; under the FC 
on the stand olf pi Hors. Thu conier ii mounted lo the 
quad Frame with four screws. Hera is a little anomaly 
Flyduina use a mounting hole spacing of 30x30mm 
Thi* h* 0.5mm smaller than most other FC* *o you wdJ 
fmd tite flight controller l* light wh B n pushing down 
on the nraunlmg screw*. I have seen II suggested fhor 
you open the mounting holes up in the FC a little with 
a round file r bu* to tjv aid any possibility of damage 
I would *ugge*J tweaking the hole* on rite mulfwotor 
kgmft miteod- There a a hltaiod LiPq voltage Oidpul for 
the video iratismittetf/eamera and dra the facility to 
odd a ftECOM or Polulu 5Y or 1 2V voltage regulator 
il you are using greater than 35 or lor example a 5Y 
cgmena or oft tcteen display 


OSD |ON SCREEN DISPLAY) 

To view the telemetry dato bom she electronic speed 
CQ#4rollB*s you need an oddiltonal bit of hardwnue 
gnd ihgrg grt twg tKgice*. The OT?y tuuto t* using the 
ready te go preFlosFied board from flyduina and it's nel 
expensive, bte alfecnorivoly you can buy a lYin imOSD 
board, download the firmware Irom ihe FJyduino 
wgbsit* and flash away Thu nocorTurmndaliQn li to 
powur it u*i«g cm oddiiiend 5V BEC nel from the FC. 
This ii easily achieved using the carrie* as mentioned 
above and all Ihe detoil* |qc dosng thu are m (he 
manual Anaiher option for telemdry data n il you use 
FrSky grd if* wry pOsy to COnnUd up to this FC- 

PROGRAMMING 

As mentiaued, you codigure the KISS FC uiing 
a Chrome App. If* lirmVar in loo\ and f eel kg Ihe 
CleonFlight GUI but simpler ond less inhmidalin^ 
especially For those new lo this type oF ft . There’s also 
a simpler Android opp rtwf* useful lor Fine-tuning out at 
the field; don’i target to save any charge* you make to 
ypvr ggrdtgurnlion whgn using. Oto thing *□ nglg 

Is ihe numbering sequence of the nraloi * i* different lo 
GeanF light, bur iF you are using the carrier system (and 
point il ihe right way] everyi^ng will bo posilieued 
cgrrecdy, i -remomber m the oorty day* of mulhTotor* 
ond Multwii the Gyro F ilte* optiuo was useful In Fino 




White socket Is for i 
Speke rum satellite, 
my f avoured method 
with night controller? 
a* it cut* wiling to an 
absolute minimum 
and takes little spate 


Here you can see the 
S solder points for the 
filtered camera feed 
and location of the 
optional BEC, Also the 
JPI pad On tho ESC 
that allows reversing 

gif maCOr direction 







• lilliiiliiilililiiiillliiiiiilliiilliit 



I madded Che framt with 
chi* small Krtw Co Eack 
the XT60 battery in 

position. The red and black 
wires connect to the filtered 
I IV supply on the carrier 


Nothing to do with the KISS 
system, but the video components 
can be neatly Installed In the top 
of the RaGG-e frame 



Planning the Imtall will pay dividend later If you 
noed to replace or modify anything- Only four 
screws to undo to remove the esc's and flight 
controller carrier 



luning your dofl due to ihs inability dfooily sensors 
10 dool wilfc vibteNeo ll't good to I** Ate (liter faaiura 
Is available in KFSS GUI, bur remember, ir's no 
Hibsiituiion icr well-baloocad props. 


will be miMiftg o kick jI yOo d0n r l u» Hunn with ihd 

f C- Don't (&amp;*gat to odd ihe opitenal bursar becousa 
- yes I losr mini in the gras-s tor a while l! was retro 
lifled os soon os I got i! home. Concents, wall none 
rocliy; I wotfld like to we o way to assign Air mede 
Ifl □ Irnmmiltef switch 03 ihn evident meM niOOn? 
its enabled oil ihe hme and an on-board block box 
loolify. jFlyduino do sell an add an logger j but other 
iban rtxat I'm struggling la find anylhing also other rfcat 
ihe 0.5mm different mounting hefes. Yeah, | mdly like 
it and I will be buying mart KISS Flighl coelrallan and 
electronic speed controllers tor Fulure builds! ■ 


SHOULD YOU 

I'm a little biased as I 'we used Flyduina From die early 
days and know juil bow goad ihsic products and 
service* have been however, when I First saw the KISS 
FC my concern wo * could ife* nv */ L?»d e« 14™ block 
reofiy be 04 good os my preferred Seriously Pro F3 
boards? F didn't need la worry; il was easily and 
quickly installed in the ftaGG-e Dog frame using the 
carh^ system, What was surprising was Ihe way it flew 
wrfh ihe cfefqwll PiDs and with my pdrttCufar motor/ 
prop/tiome sat-up I would guess il was already 90 
pe* cent of ihe way there - locked in, fespoasLva 
and predictable. Bolh vei-pans of ihe GUI 
worked wall and m&amp;do configuring and 
tweaking easy The miwmol bos plenty 
ol into and helps explain the various m 
fealures of ihe KJSS FC in an easily m 
digested monror I've been a fan of m 
Little 0*e electronic speed contedler? V jx 
since ilvey First became available, bur ■ 
lha KISS ones are axcelSertf and you I ” 


GUI landing screen usefully shows the 
flight controller connection details 


Screen Shut of thd Chrome canflg GUI 
This it the first page you need to set* up 


Ready to burn up the sky 
with the KISS electronics 
well protected in tne 
RaGG-ft HDPE frame 


Another screen showing the data 
outputs- At can be seen It Is less 
cluttered than the Clean Flight one 


Where To Buy? 



ON TEST 









n sight - Product guide 


Buyer’s Guide 


AS MULTI -ROTORS BECOME MORE POPULAR. 
THERE ARE NEW MODELS BEING LAUNCHED 
ALL THE TIME, SO HERE'S OUR GUIDE TO THE 
LATEST DRONES ON THE MARKET IN THE 
VARIOUS SIZE AND PRICE CATEGORIES 


Mkrft/ffiirti 
Rednecirion orl/ sport 


tombra rig 




Arond 

1 

Blod* 

Mtod«l 

IpdirfliK FPV RTF 

5d£C-1 

M*cro FPV quod 

Prifn 

$U&gt;dJF? 

Octal k 

Ik peifsc? Ugmnm FPV dion* drtgnXi 

Ijy ndpea IV ^9 . dj^in* ro«t wilti n 

23itiW rhtorfj, FPV 1 tpbnti Strtd it A 34iV*i 

FV it^ernnl manCtr dxfl can be upgraded 

Thu *l*diir ;liKnn&gt; icui ret* 
syittorne era snxx&gt;di and quie&lt; bpaipped 
wdi Hrn mrithSTKiie 5AFf tachndcgf wdS 
W#b«fliig moki stuy^g in iiLuriJ aaay 

Laolocr 

www Qkxtohfilii.com 
www Nyita4»Holsby.«i irk 

J 



Br«id Bkide 

Mfidel Niino GX2 m 

Spec M»ao FPV crinxf 

Prie# £11999 

Details Updated von chi c^ the pcpulra 
W 13110 QX w.Hi IPV capability 
using moiiihy or fpi 

Shpit goppbL SmdJ enough kg&gt; 
take i anywkta ih* qwsd ■&gt; may 
'■table and mi is- pedeci be bn 
OftSvrtd i h# I «m# &lt;jf k* 
looking o gel □ giual llail 

Con hats w* rtw bndeih^ t coin 

br*Mta*ihobbyco.Lik 





ftlnflrtd Hobbyifr' - 
Menial Reid K I t 

Sf*. WLcrn enmera equipped quod 

p™* IlTEC 

Details Tt.i anlrytofel Prijne leoNrci .• •.TfnJr^n 

akuA Wd. (wmBc *£* c# oxl tontfrna 

tadmdbgln. pint o bmbmfo riiffl of 
l«qid ™i#w g«| pk*W Atwynoric Vp 
mode idk^i oe^ml 3&amp;£htogrev o&gt; 

Iks puiJi d -a ojfcm flw fleiis cooes KiW 
intofftoloJ wiA f»ui-)f*iriy rtfflW to 
including n ?&gt;cid 5 C can ovd mpncxmanl 
(W90*l*i 

Contact wmt lien jonbebby to ul&gt; 




B^ondl P'S"! lusfjir 

Model RSI Eye Gop i&gt; 

Sp« A*r(*dlif PPV rtVsThTl qijpd 

Pnce £&amp;4 99 

DePpil* &amp;qv£p*d nwilh motfwn gyro 
todlncbpy ohd bstito nef 0 
simple ya&lt; icbuel design 
Wblffiw jrtto OT* if^dora? 

□4 ouidbou. rfra HUg/h' 
uqbilikqiM-^ hchiH-*.-iuw 
perh-u n’T jebobJy mwi in 
w-uidy conditions 

Ct«i«! ' s bgge* * mu 

www lait 4 ad.ca-.kA 


l* 



Brand feJipto 



Model l di : r U HD 

&amp;£#* ft IT &lt;(?.-. Mill. Hinrfl 

Pit™ i l S9.99 

Chriqdx Tl* Block iBOO* 

edrribfrw ike Ittair *ti 
quadeopiei ntfH3«jftori'i 
Wrffr HP fil'd • 4 ioq» 
capture cnpoL-liiir : 

C onion:! h*-ww LVjdekt i . ^ 

www taxHjnksdby.co.uk 


Professional camera 
rip/ 5 




FPV Bating Quadi 
Flying Wing s 


Brand 

-T 

€Iom 

M«toi 

MartoQK3l&gt; 

Spec 

Micro oeiobatic chhkJ 

P»ki 

[J9P9P 

Etoi tails 

Alto utoa nmbo 6bdei Naho 

QJt TD quadk^-ipto' JypaLs this 
bdilwtii d mqiXtosjiW ability by 
nioi np htgh speed 'flips, hoi* 

(■n mrm mid NnhWtoll lltghr 
kimpJo to pef brm 

Contact 

ww^bJodwhdn 
ww^-horicotihokii^r kIo.uIl 

J 


(Srpod 

pramdq 

M-ucIpI 

&lt;0^0 

Spec 

An rebate copable oi.ad 

Prkt 

£39-99 

Oe hails 

Equipped wfAi on intogrPVsd 
dif|kl tnlcjo cqwntra 25B 

m*** SD tsifd, ysu rtn ibofif 
cnip, ctoar phaipi and vdaqi. 

Hip iji *ii teuehi d a buttoii ar^f 

Hy indc-on and but 

ton had 

vA^w.ib5fnidk5 f eiWfi 

J 




biisrtd 

Mvbwft 

Model 

04 Mane 

ipac 

MiciQ quod 

PHce 

£31 99 

Details 

Laghtwnighl, easy 10 % nonn 
quod eoihM reody-fe-fV Uio^bt 
from flie ben One year wide* 
devek/pmenh thq Nubian QA 
ft rfto nJhrnole in mfcro RC 
todnrHAjgy 

CPntafT 

www-.lMitkW* Ltotii 
aw* cmldisInbonoCT co.ifk: 



Proind 

1 

9ftYij|l CtHlhoJ 

Model 

Nona C&gt;UEii fro 

Spqc 

Micro qofd 

Pb» 


Detail h 

Comppct rt#ginn(rf.fo*ndy 
toodytefly tadkMtbniriiHed quod. 
Meositrmcj toss-Hinn 4 icin m tonpth 
q«J wfltglv^i |i. u 1 1 fcg, itw Nyiio 
Guad’s sr-all detgn rxskes 1 ! -deal 

Sj-.jiw k* md«w fWfli. J fW be 
used oiildcoi 1 in s*3 or conditions 

Caniacr 

www rauHll.de 

J 








Modal J50QX 
**» £IF i^qjck:oi|Wr* 

Price £J&amp;9 9* 

Ptotail* rty*&gt;fly , ilmr-ri'b qi*id 

gives you eweiy4hirtg ytau 
fei pfrf ytaM- GaPttS 
CPrt-Crt fnoi ihcUyJM m ’l«i 
perApct sped lot *p«c aerial 


Contort' --vww bkidarv^o corn 

www hiruijwfihblsby qq uk 







■-rand Liir-iifJ 

Model 'Miff* -■ 



ipc-: xl ■ haKKaadf 

Pm* L' 9 fl 99 

Deloili v mifrtiiM P- 1 rtl &gt;v&gt;r 

Ifki^olwinnei 2 JGHj hb-cr^Hi 
4mxncii6lw eftkH-i. La- :lH dMUttH 
with (tue* up«d inveli trom 

l4k|&gt;Mirir Ifr «f!Fxll 

Contocf . .«*- i .rail ■&gt; • ■ 

email jkJ-yniirHthii^-ll d* 

w 0*45 4590747 







T*imn 

Aten 

apqhccrlon eavy kb uui quod 
£34999 

WlfK tporl t hlrr^ and *ip**r n*ode' 

Hii* BTF wiK |iwi a iwtf?t nJT mw* 

TuSwuii wfz intivtjcd ttwNi infwh- 

Igf making mmgi i#dly aorv 1 » uh 
and rf*- Awn ■« no dtf*p«mi WillioM 
rheme getting nte drones -ns ■-#!! ai 
i'maW|) «k&lt;i t*m ddrt ijtfi 

acnon cnnwro lor 1 m rm i n y and out id I 
ph9lngiiie% 
wrww car». 



br-and Wip* 

Mod* I W7Q\ 

Sp-c Caniiii □ rig quod 
Me» £ *09 99 {F 759 w/flln*M 

Ovhailk The M 4 7 Q ii Hid- entry Wiwl 
rwKhin# 4i rkfi w Ahgn 
quod i*Tg* vb^iitJi COrneb 
witfe ihn n£ now Align (£2 
3-m4, btlidlltU itebLfcffhsjrt 
glrnbd Few Sfiftp ifyb -and 
wiTwrfli 

CdiiTdcI wNwi-t^g n arm , hr 
H '^4 : 5 e J iIuIi.it UK 
Id OS 455637151 



Brand 

w 

Model 

2 

lp« 

Canwn f eady quad 

Prrte 

£599 99 

Doloitii 

fijf ClpPiD with aplioogi 

M3-3D gimbd 

IPV Ifywgond ncrirf 
(jhn^a|*y tif^ad nghi 
at* oF |L* bar 

Conloct 

bHWMrd|I.UHn 
*rw* buidlyfri tv iih 
tiyingffadgah com 



Brand 

Modal 3-eta p 7 

5p*f Quod wilt*. I MiH *.-i i*Dlhrr:b 

P™ £*19 09 

[£7,59,99 w/§^antro«f| 

Detail* CdmpSOHLl. tobiilt, sblA 

and light al only SGOg, 4w 
w. fin'll 7 ii tqnipp#rt 
wllh thnyitis-rl gcncTDliDn 
of union qnd wdSncJogy 

(fv| bcaih 25 ai 

4ly i n □ ■ nm 

COrUtKI -WW.pWtE^fijrrl 

rww R-p'ingkTp L com 



BfOnJ 

^nirtS 

Modol 

&amp;I1MLEZ 

*P« 

RTF fflffWIBhiBdflpPd i^i.il.Sct 

Pthie 

£439.M 


TH* iiMTApiedl^ b™ 

On iOS a A-ndcod iJevkd uiirg 
iho FiifDiri A| tlif- Dn-taairJ 
dilMfO Crtfiwi liIM high ^rfliry 

4K ydeo-ond ]3M^ p-hc^: " 

#hil|l Eh* im jay DukaioteJ High* 
■rodm rnnon^ |Kal * can km tmf Foe 
HiDFri^il dn.’pind i 

CdOlPiil 

WWW V* 

J 




flroc-d 
Me- del 
Sp« 


Prk* 

Octaili 


C-OAtGCl 


Niiwf EoyLa 
Galaxy V.Lifer 6 
Cijitjwel fTf q-jad with 
built-in tnnwyn 
£99.99 

Gafciicy V.iibr *, boded 
nv.iK 2 4GHz Wih 
Cowil. h5i h** -ITfi 1 qnrj 
FI'jj Fmcftart ■ Ii easy fa 
ofWi’Dta UoLiirt in Flying 
□nd hn good anl'-t'aih 
pfldoirwirf* 

nii-^agU ofrii 




Srand 

K Eyw 

Modal 

On* XbHiH 

h"* 

Mcfcby «n^U qijJLhJ 
enthCPS 

Piitt 

£90 99 

Octnili 

Laknl 6uxa gya 

skjLl.wjv^ tochnd^, 
wHWMi^ig bt Uihh-ii 
mater Jriwm lliglil cariro' 

Oif nHtaki&amp;d w.*!h o 
robnV yil irjdiih Inline 
dflJHfl'i 

Conkici ^Wf 'ijlo^qur Lam 

A-WW in kl lad I'l'j uL 





n sight - Product guide 



\ * . ' 



Brand Sty Htwg 
M fldaC Spy 

Spec, Chiu! pn.p henxoptai 

p *k* mws 

Thu WiglnaJ 

i l guaranteed Id impreiL 
SflwJliii arid nran ? jt 
•hen the Sky Heio Spydm. 

■1 shorn I many rJ lh* sain* 
FeOto*vi rhof ir-ale fbese 
muhi-coptorc so *k traced 'nary 
Coniatf www iktyd mo rr*i 
www.bu.crilyei.co.ij't 


Brand Twiitor 

Mod*! Qwcm fr* 

ip-M RSf ccmpacl quod 

P»k* EOT QQ 

DfflaiU The Twill** QuD^a-JC is a high 

performance-. GFS equipped 
qyadfjsptor ehui Jl fdpdbln -d 
canying a C-aPro w i i rr-’4o r 
jpoMs cop'jmq hat flwny 

veiling fce(Aj?E-S thal itkiIjb 
■i ih* pflrWt -rihfidiii' 1 1 i”r p i HQ 
muhKDlor Byi'ltf 

Conlacl www jpfliliindii^itrtJliDfi.cG.iA 


Brand Align 
M&amp;d*l 01 

Sp« Cernoia irody quad wilh 

trfdmg ■jndefwrrkjg* 

Price CiDfl.W 

DataiE* Mkj-ronflft ™r.hiiiit lluyl Menst rss 
he iitaW rz-fy w«»h nd earned 
q Tibol Mnirfy portion ihe 
Sandu^ itodi rdmn to «*uite 
any camera mounted ha: no 
■T:-ti 1 1 r U iTl I I'Wi Irt (9 J0Qd*fli** ™#w 
Contact www align cam Iw 

ftobUkhA*- IM 

idl: OUSS 637151 


Bfond 

Ojt 

Model 

Msm c P ro 

Sp« 

RIF -aifiiera-nq nipped gnad 

Price 


Delalli 

Thfl IcitaJ DJ is an xltni ccmpad, J&gt;C 
camc*iMqifpped pjcid iSal lm b .™ 
feifflg to ii ftiirsflidy pei«bw9 

FeOUto Wi w he QcuSyw; nn^vnispcm 
lyrten cAma range cl up to 4 3 milti 
ipewLti dl vp to Atitipf drd flghi i mei 
ot fcftg et 2^-dth A&lt;^va^1[Ki end 
toprhy .?idte pratoibc^a"! tocki r g ndaa 
« 2 cy whkj GPS aid GLONASS eniLce 
pecisr pouianing itldw ari eiAktoth. 

C*ni*ct 

d|i Mm 



■ - ----- 


Broad 

Hutuaii 

m 

Model 

M Pro 


Spec 

Prim 

Owhftot 1 fr.ltt’ern qwd 

CTBC 

IfU 

Detail » 

S*iTii prdtoHHSJMjJ HTF FPV qtfpd 
iltol camtos whh ih-warn biwif toil 



_jnnbo! and lull HO camera II ii 
equipped wilh ih# vjirr.jl thjW.lflliefl 
including! GPi, rragrelic cc^mm 
pnd hei|jto i»mai apd qlia hqs a 

5G&amp; Yidoa dawntoad ^Prth 


CofVNxt 

www kjhsan coni 
emu.l. yfcflSjfhto&amp;.de 
leh 0B4S 45 s ? 1906 

A 


^ , W» 

-r - 



L 


l 


Broad 


Model 

TAUHOOa 

Spec 

FSV RIF H#xixi?plfli 

Price 

Cl 4199 PQ 

Detail* 

The Ttrfi HiOCl \% □ regdy 
tolly FPV RC hlM tttpr* 
wilh 14'1'aL laflr kuni&gt;ng 
ll-idr. Il it Hi# (Jfil kk-t i&gt;iW 
llc-p oenal y*'dea and FPV 
v&amp;Mxt. 

CanTacF 

www welkef a com 


ww* cmHii* ibulion ca eL 

Wa 



Brand Symn 

Modal t5CinjAwf.il. 

Spec Gucto wllh W.1l &lt;r. camera 

Price £*9 r 99 

PatoiF* Faufa&amp;.t snueniite aiohai rkk 

quad mare flenibla aid vapid 
wl»fl flyu*j A- hAlft 

gyroscope To* i&gt;r-:. &gt;e hcpwe^rg 
a uii'plii mqdutoi dniign making 
■1 edjy ft* JrtJMl ■ BptolJtrtt’tolll 
and a JD JOQ emiion and 

famfeg lliglii Junction 

Contact i*n¥w.iytoatoys ccm 

w*» ^mWhlTlbuln*i f&amp;.iA 



PJI 

li.lpirn 1 

Camera! quad with 

IriJi.V] DrifTil 

£ 9,3 B I 

Thit Inipiie I ii a pipulai 
ehotfe fa* hhi nfiokHC* 
adoring (OjTTi advanced 
i*chivjtogy coroi 
togehe. in an eosy to 
-til*, oilman* fTyircpi 
palfCHm wW.dii tom 



Brand Yuno^ 

Model Typhoon QJfOO 4£ 

Spot Aerial photo qjod 

Pffc* CW 99 

□Elaili Corrplrt* acrid wdaa i^iham hali 

lodcuy emp t y find hftU lb\w.. 
ht F^sboai. 0500 JK Is dedjjraJ 
ho altrad new pilph to jay al 
IV 1 ^. m ^ 9 * mad Hw itoteh d 
•he raara axpenancad. few pdcb 
«.ll ajipi *.&gt;:&gt;» rfw 5nu&gt;it Vrri* &lt;uxi 
htome Mode Fedtonss hcrl wil Wp 
ham. ’earn to By vi n imifJW way 
LonTatt h^; // yuneec.c^ 






BrCund Vi.tkhm, 

Model Typhoon H 

SptrC RTF Pim.-:i ii j ill, r w*#i i , erni: r-ifc.hi fcjndlng • j*H«r 

Price J090 

Dalall^ Tim 4?0cTipctot drr-'in &lt;? nTtor airha^ 
and canmii wrh d If -ewsdh 3-SCdeg. n*j 
urTirnrlfid rcflghaa girr^gl and tfHtCTG03 + 

• joUHiftt to i.jh- vrdecn, end 1 2 MP 

ihlls, w R ighr and image caplura ntode-i. 
Irududif^ ol riYi(ii*i,i. Qd&gt;\ C(p»“*d5l 
Cable and jw^ney Inoaroi™ new sariely 
TitolVffl* Inriudw lilhQMric |VQKim*y 
dotoclicm to prevenC collision! W‘»h abstoclei 
pnd d radiinri-incY lailsatfp tystini 

Ce n 1 act l ■ Up / /yu wc u i 







Brand *Tobfcy*L‘ng 

M«d*l 

Spec RTF F PY quad 

Pdc* EW.49 

Ptitoiii Thu cWiv.b poclqgi vH &lt; 
arJy ihe bast compooenh. 

which iim ii^jk -n DJI Wqjs b* 

with GPS, Ftfthni^ 230mW 
wduo E* and 6CQrYL Tpn 
Mtod ctimeta, Mufti-SlUi 2213 
melon and matched 2 DA Aka 
CSC'i fof a phjg -Gftd Fiy FRY 
eKper-mnce like no cltwr. 
Cenlgtf w-my» f .iil-yi ^p c_ - i Hi 



Brand DJI 

Mattel Insprn 2 

Sp*t Com*ra quad with 

lokhng rotos 
Pries EL3D59 

DeJai li This po ng fcfraVrs 

dbstoclo avoidance, a 
tMkcifad FJA/ tdw*rd 
Ira lhep;1al, twin bcAefy 
syito*n with redundancy 
and □ pah al new 
rn.'Trfii ns X45 and 

X 5 S 

Can ha cl wv*w d coni 



Brand 

Model 

Pries 

Details 


■ConltPiT 


cm 

Spreading W-ags S S0OQ* 
Plc fa l l lD m d OWhqI 
photo cctoccptor 

KT&amp;C 

TFvuSIOOOtrpuhDJI’i 

latest l proiErs.'boriaUine 

i«Ki&gt;tJbgy toto ill *wri 

to dflln 

www dji can* 

www bujTflyw . &amp;*.&lt;&amp; 



Brand A' qn 

i jykto 

Span Professional oerioi 
JhJtoto qu^jdsGfilof 

Price 

Dnlaili Designed wilh 0114 
pupati In mind 
-and dial is lo be a 
p-oU+ik^ii fpode 
■earner® perform ord 
to carry J\g pqyJoqds 

CanJacP wWW.ahgu '^r&gt; hw 
Rabbe Sohl-Jter UK! 
4d; 01453 617^1 



DJI 

Malrtoa 600 

Ptdessyaoal aerial photo heucocopfoi 

ETK 

The Mtrtioe 600 is DJI's new B)NXf 
pidri^p 4™ pfiF*viks^jJ owid 

pbctotfopAy trnf inSuiikial upp.’cdnjr.i 
h is ibudt to datefy integrato with a 

hod d ftow^M DJi tothrtotogki, 

including their A3 IhgliJ craifjaher, 
LiflhU^idfi* 2 Hqotmitww fyttom, 
IntaDigem Batteries and lottery 
Management sviknn 
Cantao* ww^i 1 com 


fipgnd CVE 

Model Stingray 

V 5fl« 3D aerdbalrc qua ctooptm 

•**»,*£ - : Price GW W 

Dofasls Full caftoclv* pitch 3-D q-.odcqplcr allows 

Lj r * r ~ T tot ftglu IrvJttwmd, backward, ttJtwflyi 

■qfc directions, and manoeuwei such as bA 

II \V ■ ; ’ ngt lufwtod to toopr rqflc. «c What dcw L 

V. ' \ • '* ’ Ik 1 rn«j«i fw □ quad® Fufly ®r?abartc FfV, 

_. jhil 7 Far one and generaf spert/ic:^*^ - -.m 

^ IVflfl pe«iwiV n« pombln m 

^ ^ manaaur^mi an multi rrtor machines 

CS«I«I wwrt- : &lt;»i 

www.Jastlad.ca.iA: 


1 $ 





Brand Ura» 

Madrl AhO 3D Otiad 

Sp^ 30 Ik rjyfldospt*-? 

p™ tw.w 

D*«eril*' Diswilqp^F will- design mpu' 
Fium sow of I He weld's 
top 3 D pilcti ihe leap realy 
gctmlii ovl to ih hnld The 
new leap 3 D Quad cdddei 
pSw to gq- Jiom ina hqtid* 
cdf to hill biawii ID tf jad 
performance 

C*Pii*r t ^ IsopMqpad.Mni 
www Fa s&gt;-h&gt;d ca.ul 



Brand Gaui 

Model f rna E Rating Drcrn 

SprM 2 B 6 v 20 flPV 1 c* it) qtiQt) 

Prim Ll 21.^6 

D^tpil- TThL Afir :fl. r- — cup. .:!m\ ilmpdj*®- &lt; i. 

strergfh erd Jledbtof The Frame qnjf 
rrwqns jW can hsmi ypuf ftfekr?^ pa»*i 
tyi-taA, aic 0 . WstnUAi', tra^my aid 
mdec and you a* iecd^ to caoe 
Conl*&lt;t www.hftbl^ •;? 1 .ini 



Brpad turn.- 

Model HQ2G 

Spec Prc4esi-..«-al aerial 

photo &lt;*HKku|!tor 
Prim itT&amp;C 

Hell Th* tlmtoc- H9KJ ii 4 

prttfesiiatKil it^rrty lieridi 
phertography and ^Ideagraphy 
plrffetm llsniiiqi.w iJniigrt 
and »7ino¥ah*B lealuim mala 
it jxrtPW* to CQptvr* qaftO)!irg 
phalcgrn^hi and video 
fatotogp Jar a wirieiy ct uwi« 
Cantatl VyTcn-: ram 



Brand ^ 

MadeT Nin[a 400 MS 

Spac 3D afi^bnllt qiiarkaptoi 

Price C320.A5 

Detahli NlW 400 MP r is a ws&gt; y .miqur 
3 D qitodt 6 phM whidi itorjbhw 
you to da 3 D F&amp;gh* Fhe raotra 
can rnven* ih, totaiton qgifkfy 
and yau can da c^rabahc tJighl 
in liHfld&gt;p 4 dh. Wot arvy hovei - mj it 
bul did yrai Cai* u^jtiy «r*eltog 
itfiisJ Lke Dying S/C heAcaptors 

C«At«cl www |i|srppO 1 n rt&gt; 

www macgFegra ca uh 


Bt&amp;nd , :.-.i::fium 

Model ChnaJic 30 Rif 
Spflc 3D a#f(Jb ahe qixid 

Price m2 SO 

Delailf A unkhiL 3D quad 1ml haL 1 + an- -Ip 

toM &amp;D ueiifeiv iftosjdtfrftk W 
-rhvitodAghl OfWrflg: gra! sdi* d 
mnne^. Uhl BTF packag* wd niivw yew 
to ItotTi or&gt; ilto wuv wdv Hw Modccw 
fig^r aDnAolhH cJhMmq rr#e prim 
Hgb nKdto htm TOunuP- Ttofciidrtar 
iiHi^i to □ hiion lalcg. 

C^nlfKl- wWw kihDA w 1 - m 


Brand Align 
Modal MB 25 

SpCH qitod 

Price £239 99 

Oqtq iU Alii')! 1 -kv. unr-- ■. vyd Hi I vand fipw 
quad race 1 ended The MH 25 F PY will 
beowalkjfcle si»rt Hie new mpdiin# 
boddl iJi.Cr '^11 perknmaiWi&gt; stobk 
F- l] h/ eoiy Lc-nlrd and a coal 
to&lt;^iftgi*hd lijftr^fricil ibkign- Alrjn 
is alsa prarr&lt;sing i* 1 will beveiy 
poiwrFul pm| jin? *M quod nxing 
enlhuT-snJs have been wailing Far 
Conlaic+ viWw a'-qn cam »w/en 








n sight - Product guide 



Brand Ajc-i 
M4d&lt;il 7-L A 9nli 

"Spec 250*^1^ FPY ^acirq ifluad 

Price £2V9 99 

Detail* Jy. r ‘ - i ;■ 1 I J- - . :|-|- • 
‘bra ckn Itimv wf, 4~ ■* £f mri Fid bd 
fi k* a4ft^flr1flt*h end tto&lt;AJr &gt;i q 

2in^ ionw-'n-, bflGtVL ott-io, 32 
b 1 wnlrdWf w* pWxlMj 

nMhH. Vi-Mldf p7*-H ddMrUrtCn twj-. 

I BA Cn*Shd *r&gt;ob«ad ipe«d c-yr'r zf+n will 
KM I .m*w n^il 2204KS# 

Can-1 act ’iVww jpedhini.Pom 



Brand Emaa. 

MAdel 

Spec Advanced FPV roci r« j q.ad i 1 

Pfk^ CE2J99 

Dvldili :-■ ■xj rro-Jf r.l cab?, “ibc !«e aie+ 

I pCfkcdy Wilted l*H Mr «' Tt FFV 
IL-Ji^pfehr itTfOrl Ul^d NflMw-f 
■Vow ream vm aicrr; w f iby • , jb J 
0&gt;m&gt; (Hjrf# *h*n wif, f ATflonaiH 

oF a m™ 4A jfcpc&amp;pd Lp^^egbi rjnJ fait. 

** N^dwrJi it 4 m.HtJ hqn for Cr-ad n vml 

Cortod ww*.r*njHieolAiik to -il 

www. qua deep I a rs.ca-.uk 



Brand 

Blade 

Mod. 1 

Wxlwt 15U 

Spdc 

FPy racrig quad 

Ptm* 

C?59 W 

Oeigili 

Bladd and Ir-^mrEianRC have tearped 
gp ’wcHlh diii 1 50-isrn rarer pqi.uppod 

Wilfj SpddMn ^StFimAigy H Mstul^t 0 
CL'itz-rr. pKywei syviem. culling edge 12 L i 
processing perwr and! hjllgrap^ik QS&amp;j 
plui 4 pi r»j i gfn rr'u jj J »&gt; li D t^Onm- yCM 
car cyikMnisfl- la llqih al 111 * ppenperlilion 
Pwiwl for viKde» Ptwrifbi 

Contact 

www bladahekL com 
^ywji*044Fdlk?bfcry&lt;0 i.Hi 

j| 




Brand 

Bis* 



mi 50 


Spec 

£xpei1 levc* 2SD clasi- quod 

* V 

P»HP 

%\V?P5 | 

k 

Daloill 

The tUD. whch klCrnds h? fair JOimf^r 

O-nfibie r L □ Ig^jwegV liupped Aswm d»vgfl 

b$K&lt;A At d hrijlwrt^w? fosrn pud COJbA? 

F-Joch hare ^H L o.o‘ _ - i. vt itolek iw RKD^SO 

r 


oi l»mg ai o»paH^ di# ie? d h^jh epM, 

&lt;? has- been rxjmhijrtd *3 w'lhs.tcrd -□ heavr 
imped. Rcqu/M q bafery afd m'tvw to gun 
ijp r, 4m (nr -and onn be used Frn ffV 
whan a lUitTMi oanwa is adebd. 


Contoet 

w^rw. &amp;t i w . C4*ti 

J 



Brand BkytC 

Medd Sofar 

Spcrc 250ddu FI'V enlry level race* 

Pfi&lt;# C3A9.99 

Details Hw Baker a Fail -Highly 

ITWflWWilW# nod hm fl/fPl 
Highl performapPe wilH arti FPV 
lyitam ihal usei an addilionnl 
fcUefcft On ltv« hd#iSf™HiW 
Well 3-jdod ho ihe beginner. the 
Hying cNtfoctodiifci will oJw 
appeal Ho the seasoned! llynr 
with ill epeed and dynamics. 

Coifrtacli ■yvf’i'.' lip-?.: ccm 



Brpnd 

fllada 1 

Model 

TitoA-y K 

Spec 

fFV racing quad 

Priet 

C^S .W/S 54 , 99 / 174 . W 

Details. 

Available -h 170 M&gt;ep*. I 95 ^ p 
popl of 220 16 ' pfdfl djcwi. ihflt* 
new io-ie Framei focus on siriple 
bm durable and Iasi Conilraded 
eeseclueiyolylA facing, ih? assembfisd M 
CQrJgining GPinpn fibi* pnd campnirte 
n!ales. and all recaairreadod 

equiprtmrj hoia IFyln^ wurgF-r c-f unly 

400 to d 50 a 

^Asbv.biaifolwlii oPm 

CanlacF 

www 1 hZf i .n.-m h:t bhiy. c ci ot 




Jlrrwni’F 

Model 

* 9 ** 

Price 

Odoiii 


Caalaci 


PVinril 


Flymowing 

C! 149*9 

the O*:*- Ik iopdAi d « 

rsl rpr.-nr £{&gt;rg/t v*l nArplw iM| dl 

Prenatal, Tided k¥ * «gftl nnc 

JT'OCnAh ibuifcy T"o i P b kft i wwgnMwd 

m» '.w Atfaf " 


al^i ipiywai 

x FfeL GPYl M. p w nw Hfr »aWftJ 

’T**rlf il fk+VTUtx {y h wY-g il 

rg fw rarji v. |% uifttydf p* 


Nr-gv 


din^dH 


lu^yii 



fie*! PrfWdVlew 

Marita w# DlWid 14 14 HI FfV M b V* 4 ferih mrimmii 
bw ^ II ■/£ 

arm ficre^ Jsitak fldb™&lt;I dvobesm 

toyp] i^Fh. ^poi Da hdu I wan ntdarra dti if Ifl k&amp;ain fK H 


IF ytxi're h inking of InvEiding in a mulr. -ccptQf dro'iCY or &amp;von if yoa how or&amp; 
oFt«Mjy ihflroi oro iomo organispliEM*, vmcb^l^i. cornpaq^es and 1 conlacH rKoh 
wlW cOffiB In uwfijl. wWrt N^tf lti«m fatm fot you in iFni homfy gvkfe 

ffl mtb-$nthh^\ Flying frtedofen 

Ti»s i'.lfA n flu F-r^rd Gn^ir-fl pyF r i-j fre d - e .!d Ihnj srr-, .71 
to prTiirt!. pitfH!. apt inf nofe fj^ij wrtfi fk Ut f.yuDiy 

He*; Gt: ud i^j i^^hI rjjfo lyd n contrail rnsidsyiiip iJ wa 
nirib'ji. dill dir-i liwii x^ffiri :■ fwtrr/^ fi aikfo Id no'id 4i:r Iim 
□ vixj i.i fifi rigfoniB ranged i, its tr.Hif^L m iw frAiip 


RC 5rgg|it F-avm 

Rta i-jyyjfr. (Tire TlWUfi |* rlkfi fskf Sfi isrif ilisi I iyflh U-Hiicikd ilfeiyiiy 
iii ik4|il!4i- ijiieSSfiei^ (fd fifii'fl, !^is i'H lv '/W wni gp^hkati oc 
rk^cdir^ c”l d tjsHT ofAns cofn-w¥fy uif hsiy o&amp;cKk ie V3ur.e. 

ivnrw.FyLwp.fvni 


OLd-ari ArirfH Authority 

Ho 04 A«H5fi (k W’J- !Pfti flfel enrol ne^Jc!« Heag*i &amp;j 

vd enperti^ e rt cr. d wo^ iKda ff In Tdd 

vrwwiMoul 


Build Tam Own Elf aw 

EMfcj ftu M UmA mode fpi %n\ a ihcp r n jufs tdrAwi 
Is M &lt;m tFw f»iJ #ikni^ bwie Mfrg (tc &amp;t) liHced 

rod iMiffli r -iA&gt;u, UVf 1 idrHifejhn witft ord wm hrid^ F&lt;f fFo 
fntamly Ludl WWk dih rl u#r; te iSerft ntdrividt. 
y,uiv Jldf iflLflWiT^nW m &lt;A 


dnlfiffiii 

'w^iiliii Btdti flftijliltf irfldg iiiiili ptBlWfc 
tnxkftd t&amp;iMdccirt?ife H W Ces il H UTl b?si Q| ddtn** h^i^aicJ 
7 Mewd tftf.-T.Uf4 S «l il 5OT adJ-tf fid ft! 

In H 1. FfJ ^$f^adhpf t^ngy j 

Ufndld n Ht yfa^r&lt; lifi^dpaicti ^ -mt aa^ja J 








► nzHmx u? 


Drone &amp; 
Multi-Rotor 

Specialists 


Mavic Pro 


Folding, compact drone with advanced f&lt; 

The DJI Mavic Pro folds down as small as a bottle of waier T making it 
small enough to take anywhere. New OcuSync transmission system 
offers up to 4.3 miles (7km) of transmission range. Fly at up to 40mph 
(64kmh) or for as long as 27-minutes, True 4K, fully stabilized ensures 
smooth footage. ActiveTrack, TapFly and other smart features make 
professional looking video effortless. 



DJI Inspire 2 


Yuneec Typhoon H 


F210 3D Drone Racers 


Walkera Rodeo 150 &amp; 


Ready to race! 


Ready to race! 


Micro Quadcopter Drones 


Full FPV Setups 


Multirotor 

Simulators 

AeroSIM &amp; 
Ph^ftixRG 


Visit our website for more quadcopters, RC helicopters, spares, accessories, cameras, cases, tools and upgrades 
We offer FAST delivery combined with superior service &amp; back-up + FREE guides &amp; information for beginners! 

email: info@buzzflyer.co.uk Tel: 01787 319 999 

BUZZFLYER ARE UK DISTRIBUTORS FOR: DJI INNOVATIONS, FREEFLY CINEMA, ESKY, WALKERA, DROIDWORX, 
YUNEEC, MIKROKOPTER, GAUI, CINESTAR, FAT SHARK, PHOTOHIGHER, SKY-HERO, XTREME PRODUCTION 





