1
Abstract -This publication explores global problem areas
where properties offered by Blockchain provide workable
solutions for the existing widely unsolved problems of
Accountability, Traceability, Identification, Visibility vs.
Privacy, and Connection of Non-Deterministic to
Deterministic timed events. Using BlockChain-based
transactions, we demonstrate that operations related to trust
are reducible to five directly implementable cryptographic
actions, which then create relationships to five categories of
trust that we define in this document. The solution outlined
will take the approach that the identified global problems will
be solved by blockchain as cybersecurity of the future moves
in a direction of individualized transactional-based security &
privacy. Developers and organizations looking to implement
new solutions or integrate blockchain into existing
applications would be interested in this publication. Methods
described provide workable solutions for implementing trust
relationships using blockchain for positive use cases which
can be related directly to cyber security industry solutions.
1 Introduction
The success of blockchain technology in the application
of Cryptocurrencies has enhanced public opinion and opened
speculation about many possible uses for blockchain
technology. In a short timeframe changes and new
developments have expanded exponentially. The expectations
of new groundbreaking developments have now become the
norm for many people, and this expectation of continued
growth is often the largest driver for adoption[1]. Hidden
within this latest advancement of blockchain technology, is
not just a standalone technology or product to be adopted, but
the capability of securing and linking many recent
technological advances.
New platforms such as Eutherian are enabling smart
contracts and are driving the next generation of ideas [2].
However, such hybrid platforms which utilize smart contracts
are still very closely dependent on cryptocurrencies chains.
Many publications have theorized second and third generation
solutions will eventually find their way to market and provide
groundbreaking future applications with blockchains as the
underlying technology [1], [3]. Second and third generation
blockchain uses have been largely theoretical, and their
purposed functionality is still elusive or mired in current
restrictions and limitations of cryptocurrency
implementations. Some of the most widely excepted second
generation use case are envisioned for tracking the
distribution of supply chains, and a few notable large
companies have embraced this area. More recently
researchers have theorized uses for governance programs[4],
which openly explore the smart social contracts as a central
facet for governance programs addressing a myriad of use
cases. This paper examines blockchain use cases to address
largely unsolved technological era problems, and proposals
solutions offered to these problems that can be built with
existing cryptographic APIs and tools. These designs support
the operations needed for pending legislation [5]
2 Transactions Related to Virtual Trust
As we begin to map the conversion from physical world
trust to trust on the internet or in virtual environments, we
need to provide trust establishment while at the same time
employing tools we have in our virtual toolbox. For the most
part the tools for creating a single transaction already exist.
Creating an individual transaction to be placed in the
blockchain is a matter of identifying the particular application
of trust we are attempting to achieve.
In defining and applying trust transactions, we must
consider methods to identify and map the specific
components that are needed to be placed in the blockchain
transaction for a given use case. The first challenge in making
such a mapping is the lack of definitions for various categories
of trust. We currently have a number of cryptographic
algorithms available, and the result of each could be
subsequently entered as a blockchain transaction. We will
start with discussion on trust categories then introduce how to
use cryptographic algorithms and blockchains to support that
trust.
2.1 Virtual Tool for Creating Trust
Transactions
A comprehensive list of cryptographic algorithms where
the product could be included into an immutable transaction
for paring with blockchain technology, will certainly continue
to develop over time. We identify operations based on current
implementation of cyber security and approaches that can
support the Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability (CIA)
triad operations.
2.1.1 Confidentiality
Defined by NIST as “Preserving authorized restrictions
on information access and disclosure, including means for
protecting personal privacy and proprietary information”[6].
The Confidentiality portion of the CIA triad consists of
maintaining two components. The assigning of access rights
to a digital entity, and subsequently the enablement or control
Solving Global Cybersecurity Problems by Connecting Trust using Blockchain
Christopher Gorog, MBA, PMP, CISSP, Terrance E. Boult IEEE Fellow
University of Colorado Colorado Springs
2
of access or visibility by the entity to the digital assets. The
cryptographic operations related to these are 1) privacy
operations utilizing various encryption algorithms, or
visibility officiation patterns[6]; 2) Authentication operations
identifying entities, configurations, or other proof of identity
techniques[6].
2.1.2 Integrity
In evaluating the Integrity portion of the CIA triad, we
can reduce it to two components, each of which can be
implemented with current cryptographic operations. The
portion of Integrity for a single transaction is the
Identification of data and the second factor included in this
component is the integrity of transactions, known as non-
repudiation. The cryptographic operations related to these are
1) Data identification utilizing unique signature generations
algorithms such as a Hash; 2) Digital signature or certificates
relating a digital operation to a specific actor, time of
operation, system, or other environment details.
2.1.3 Availability
Lastly, we examine the Availability component of the
CIA triad. Ideally, any design should strive for 100%
availability. The Availability component enters the design
equation only in relation to technology limitations, or
unintended operations of technology outside of the
anticipated design. In the human assessment of trust, this is
known as the “opposite expectation” which equates to
transactions that generate negative beliefs about
trustworthiness[7]. Any degradation of availability has
relevance in trust transactions and to capture that require the
logging of adverse operations or conditions outside of
anticipated parameters. Blockchain trust transactions for
availability would implement circumstantial evidence
regarding the departure form operational norms as a smart
contract.
2.2 Trust related to Transactions
To build trust system requires, at a minimum,
implementable operations supporting the C.I.A. triad of
operations of information security. However, we argue that
blockchain-based system also need two more elements. The
operations for trust in a single Blockchain transaction are
reducible to the following five identified and directly
implementable cryptographic actions, which form the
acronym P.A.I.N.ED
P – Privacy - operations utilizing various encryption
algorithms or other probable visibility officiation patterns.
NIST definition[6]: Restricting access to subscriber or
Relying Party information in accordance with federal law
and agency policy.
A – Authentication - Authentication operations identifying
entities, configurations, or other proof of identity
techniques. NIST definition[6]: Verifying the identity of a
user, process, or device, often as a prerequisite to
allowing access to resources in an information system.
I – Integrity - Data identification utilizing unique signature
generations algorithms such as a Hash. NIST definition[6]:
Guarding against improper information modification or
destruction, and includes ensuring information non-
repudiation and authenticity.
N – Non-repudiation - Digital signature or certificates
relating a digital operation to a specific actor, time of
operation, system, or other environment details. NIST
definition[6]: Assurance that the sender of information is
provided with proof of delivery and the recipient is
provided with proof of the sender’s identity, so neither can
later deny having processed the information.
ED – Examinable Degradation - Digital representation of
evidence regarding the departure form operational norms.
Trust is built by the association of verifiable
transactions over time; blockchain technology supports the
time component using timestamps plus immutability to lock
in actions to fashion a provable timeline.
For a provable timeline, we need cryptographically
provable transactions to embody “verifiable transactions,”
which can be done with verifiable cryptographic software
operations. Verifiable transactions to implement C.I.A.
functionality are built from in the individual cryptographic
operations associated with Privacy, Authentication, Integrity,
and Non-repudiations. Furthermore, we argue that
Examinable Degradation features are needed to make a
verifiable transactional relationship so that users can validate
any deviations from the expected process. The relationships
between C.I.A., P.A.I.N.ED., and trust provided by
blockchain is summarized in figure 1Error! Reference
source not found.. These relationships describe a capability
to implement CIA functionality while converting each of its
components to one of the P.A.I.N.ED. operations, which
when performed can be represented by proof of their
operation type and added as a Trust Transaction. Since the
five (5) defined types of transactions, would relate to a
different type of trust transaction the respective definitions
Suppression, Validation, Reliability, Refutation, and
Figure 1 Trust Relationship and key blockchain implementable
operations to build that the trust relationship.
3
Deprivations, were given to represent these categories of trust
transactions.
2.3 Categories of Trust
The five operations Privacy, Authentication, Integrity,
Non-Repudiation, and Examinable Degradation identified
above contain directly implementable operations to insert into
Blockchain transactions. These can directly be relayed to
categories of trust.
Suppression Trust (TSP) Transaction– a Blockchain
transaction entry incorporating the resultant signature related
to the proof of operation of a single privacy encoding
cryptographic operation.
Validation Trust (TVL) Transaction– a Blockchain
transaction entry incorporating the resultant signature related
to the proof of a valid single successful comparison of
dynamically created vs. stored cryptographic digest creating
an authentication sequence relating two entities.
Reliability Trust (TRL) Transaction– a BlockChain
transaction entry incorporating the resultant signature related
to the proof of operation of a single Data Identification
operation, incorporating a digest, in relation to a given
uniform resource identification (URI).
Refutation Trust (TRF) Transaction– a BlockChain
transaction entry incorporating the resultant non-repudiation
cryptographic transaction in relations to A Reliability Trust
Transaction
Deprivation Trust (TDP) Transaction– a BlockChain
transaction entry incorporating the resultant Degradation
information in relation to A Reliability Trust Transaction.
2.4 Combining Transactions over Time
Each category of transaction listed above can be
implemented in a single cryptographic operation and placed
in the Blockchain to achieve a single block relating any virtual
entity to that category of trust. Each Blockchain application
may contain many blocks in each of the categories could also
relate to many various entities depending on the policy and
application of the design. As we explored earlier in section
2.2 and displayed in figure 1, a single trust transaction value
is negligible in comparison to the overall effect as transactions
are compiled over time. It is merely in the continuous growth
of transactions placed into the immutable record tracking
feature of the BlockChain where the value of trust grows. As
we design our BlockChain to continuously enter trust
transactions, we map the human assessment of “longevity of
trust” into a direct virtual relationship.
Creating a deterministic organizational approach to such
a system-of-systems requires some methods of breaking the
securable components into manageable and controllable
portions. Blockchain gives us a process of maintaining a
proportioned and compartmentalized block of data in which
we can preset security and privacy parameters to create a
controlled approach to positively identify and encapsulate
secure transactions. These proportioned data containers are
relatable to trust, providing a positive approach to security.
3 Identifying Global Problems to Solve
with Blockchain
As organizations explore third generation blockchain
implementation they seek connections on how and what to
implement in order to achieve solutions to often elusive
problems. Our approach has been to identify the socio-
technological related problems and then identify blockchain
operation to solve these problems. We have identified seven
technological era global spanning problems, the following
five of which are discussed in this paper.
• Accountability of Action-to-Actor
• Traceability of Events and Transactions
• Identification of Physical to Virtual
• Visibility vs. Privacy of Individuals
• Linking Non-Deterministic to Deterministic Timed
Events
Each of these identified problems is defined
independently, described in relation to how they impact both
the physical world and virtual operations, as well as how they
affect computer platforms and interconnected virtual
networks. Within the scope of each of these problem areas,
the connection between virtual and physical world
actions/actors and solutions to bridge the two domains is the
primary accomplishment of blockchain operations. The
solutions offered to these problems are directly related to
current use cases in government and private sector alike. The
proposed solutions are practical; recent legislation to enact
requirements for agencies to implement these identified
solutions using distributed ledger technology is pending [5].
3.1 Accountability Problem:
At the early stages of the computing age, the ownership
of intellectual property and virtual transactions were closely
tied to single computing devices which were within the
personal control of a single human actor[8]. Enterprise
systems were initially entirely within the scope of a single
organization, and the number of operators was limited to a
small pool of trusted users. Associations between a computers
user and their virtual actions were linkable on nearly a one-
to-one basis[8]. As the number of devices and users engaged
with the computing age has grown, the linking of physical
users and their virtual actions have continuously departed
from the ability for a human to accuracy assess due to the
sheer magnitude of both users and virtual transactions.
As the global scale of adoption changed the paradigm of
small trusted communities to a global open market with
untrusted, malicious, and criminal elements undiscernible
from trusted users, accountability and trust had to take on a
new form. The transition to virtualization platforms in recent
years enabled by virtual machines and cloud technology has
further accentuated the separation of virtual action from
physical world users[8].
With the onset of the Internet of Things (IoT), the
necessity of connection between data and physical world has
heightened importance. Many governing bodies and standards
4
groups are addressing this need with the addressing of the
need for non-repudiation of participants. Federal statute at 44
U.S.C. 3542 outlines non-repudiation[9]. Non-repudiation is
now a requirement of the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission (FERC), the North American Electric Reliability
Corporation (NERC), and the North American Energy
Standards Board (NAESB) Wholesale Electric Quadrant
(WEQ).[10], [11]. However even as legislators embrace such
compliance requirements the methods to instrument them can
vary widely.
3.1.1 Blockchain Solutions for Accountability
Blockchains properties of immutability can be applied to
any data no matter what the content of the record, each use
case which necessitates connecting a user action to record or
virtual transaction provides an instance of accountability. In
its simplest form, ignoring the operation of establishing and
sequencing blockchain block, a transaction for accountability
would identify the participating parties by including a digital
signature of each involved as seen in figure 2. The capability
of immutability offered by the blockchain would be combined
with the functionality to create digital signatures by involved
parties.
With current implementation of Bitcoin, Refutation Trust
TRF is the key component of each monetary transaction. As
seen in figure 3, two parties agree on the transaction
involving a transfer of unspent transaction outputs from one
party to other. The parties create a digital signature to show
that both agree to the transaction using the private key
belonging to each entity. The application of TRF requires the
active signing of the content agreed upon by all parties
incorporating functionally such as certificate paths which
contain digital signatures of all the parties participating in the
transaction [12]. This sequencing would require a pre-
determined sequence of operations which may resemble that
shown in figure 3. Intermediate verification points may also
need to make exchanges of public content to verify the
identities of the parties involved.
With use cases such as supply chains, blockchain
transactions may include multiple actors or a single actor. TRF
transaction may include the non-repudiation for multiple
resource. In the case of TRF transactions including the
responsible parties identification and/or digital signature
would show who performed or was responsible for the current
operations and thus would also illustrate accountability.
Advanced accountability may also include verifications
which include unique operations including randomized
inputs, HMAC operations, one-time pad cryptographic
operations, or even operations which include zero-knowledge
proofs or outputs from provably unclonable processes[12]–
[14].
Accountability has the largest value when utilized for
interorganizational systems or anonymous transactions
between less knows or untrusted parties. As a blockchain
designed to document TRF transactions is developed over time
the overall effect is to produce a historical record of
organizational trust or performance[7].
3.2 Traceability Problem
The problem of traceability manifest itself in several
forms and is often referenced as the strongest use case for
blockchain. Some of the world’s largest companies have
speculated that traceability in supply chain tracking will be
the largest use case for blockchain[15]. Anywhere that the
need for linking responsible parties to dispositions of products
in supply chains exist, the ability to maintain immutable
identification of both the responsible party and product will
add value. Whether the end distributed item is a physical
component, an integrated computing component, or consist
entirely of intellectual property for uses such digital rights
management[16], the transition of product by physical or
virtual identity can be tracked and records of transfers
maintained to prove the disposition of the product handling or
parties responsible for an item at a time or location.
Over the last few decades, the organization of supply
chains using tools such as barcode and wireless Identification
devices has enabled productivity and quality control for the
tracing of physical products. The storage of these transactions
in traditional databases often has limited visibility because
such databases rely on trusted users[17]. The requirement for
a limited scope and trusted employee administration hinders
companies from sharing access and thus currently
Figure 2: Blockchain Refutation for Accountability
Figure 3: Refutation Trust Operation
5
organizations benefit from maintaining their own tracking and
inventory systems.
In the case of tracking of computing devices, they have a
component of both physical and logical tracking, which
presents a unique or entirely new issue. For the most part
supply chains for physical computing components and the
logical software components which operation on them are
considered entirely separate. For example, Apple products
restrict logical components from operation unless they
possess an approved status from the manufacturer[18]. Apple
computer has utilized built-in hardware and operating system
capabilities to restrict the operation of non-authorized
programs[18]. Consumers, as well as software makers, have
learned to except and operate within the bounds of these
product restrictions in exchange for a quality product.
3.2.1 Blockchain Solutions to Traceability
Blockchain’s properties of immutability and non-
repudiation are features absent from traditional supply
chains[17]. These properties would add value whenever
tracking chains distributed across multiple organizations. In
the simplest form traceability would equate to the ability to
verify some entity over time or dispersed locations. The
implementation of Reliability trust (TRL) transaction in its
simplest form includes inserting the hash of a transaction
content and placing both the hash digest and the transaction
content within the immutable blockchain block. As the
blockchain functionality also incorporates a hashing
operation, it could be inferred that TRL is produced inherently
by the nature of the blockchains property of immutability. A
remote hashing functionality may only be needed to prove the
integrity of the transactions handling prior to insertion into the
chain. In any case the persistence and handling of data prior
to and/or during insertion of each transaction would remain
dependent on existing best practices for cyber security and
privacy.
If a blockchain application also requires the
accountability of administrative actions to verify the actors
for a given transaction, then this simple sequence could be
augmented to include an authentication verification TVL, or a
signing process TRF. The two could be combined to provide a
block embodying both categories of trust as shown in Figure
4. Accountability operations to show responsible parties may
or may not be required by a different application and can even
be included only on selected transactions.
The ability to incorporate authentication information into
a traceability blockchain also provides some features relating
to accountability. Many application designers in order to
reduce risk have incorporated multi-factor authentication and
or re-authentication for high-risk operations. Banking
applications require the user to re-authenticate prior to actions
like setting up an outside transfer or changing the password.
The example of multiple TVL can be found in many existing
applications. The ability to track TVL with immutable record
offers the building of trust for entities over time to reference
risk or quality for a given organization or individual.
This feature offers the capability for distributed
administration of industry shared resources. A new level of
capabilities is enacted once we gain the ability to watch the
watchers so to speak. Including authentication information
into blockchains equates to encoding audit information within
the operations of an application. Traceability of audit
information as part of the functionally will help automate
governance programs and could save exceptional amounts of
cost currently spent on reconciliation and audits.
Within traditional databases, administrators that have
superuser permissions have global ability to edit transactions
details. Due to this fact it is difficult to share administrative
functionality between organizations, as each organization
would lose sovereignty over their data. Cross-industry
trackability models have not been well supported widely due
to this nature. With TVL operations the need to operate
isolated tracking databases by each company is reduced.
Migration to cross-industry governance databases may
provide some of the largest productivity gains we have seen
since the inception of the technological era.
Another major feature encompassed in the traceability is
the ability to trace the locations of resources worldwide. The
data contained in a TRL transaction could also be locations of
offline content connected to the immutable blockchain block
content. Traceability of actions, transactions, locations, or
combinations of each of these become the equivalent of a
global operating system. Much like a registry within the
Windows operating system, a blockchain can use TRL
transactions to link data content to logical location. In
addition to the location verification TVL transactions could
show authorized users, accountability of authenticated use,
and provide an ability to verify content the integrity or
disposition of data used for audit records.
3.3 Association of Physical to Virtual
A problem with IOT identification lies in the scope of
physical computing devices, and it may be more appropriately
described as the inability to connect a physical world entity
which produces information, directly to the information
Figure 4: Combining Validation and Refutation
6
which they produce[19]. A solution to the Identification
problem requires the non-reputable connection of data
produced by devices to some unique device identifier
contained within the physical devices design. In a distributed
ecosystem of devices, complete positive identification would
require having undeniable proof of origin on each data item
from every device.
Some have theorized a one world organizational process
based around a Unique Identification[14]. Other usages of
Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPV6) propose that network
security schemas using the new protocol would provide a
security architecture based on the unique identification and
registration of IP numbers to certified users[20]. Using each
of these as a global identifier still leaves the primary
vulnerability that each can be ascertained by directly reading
them from the containing entity, and each is easily spoofed.
In any case, the current problem with identification
encompasses a bit larger issue which has arisen from our age
of virtualization. Any resolution to widescale identification
solution must now take into account that if the means of
identification can be viewed, it can be 100% duplicated or
replicated within a virtual environment. With this
consideration, a physical assignment of uniquely numbered
components must also be augmented with a method which
considers a non-public identification component that is
utilized in a secure verification method. Thus each instance of
identification and verification of the entity being verified
needs an immutable registration of entity to accountable party
and must be able to respond uniquely to challenges which
contain dynamically generated inputs using methods such as
non-interactive zero-knowledge (NIZK) proofs[13].
The more we have moved to virtualization and cloud
resources the more a rift in the data produced has arisen. In
cloud platforms and many infrastructures as a service
environment, virtual platforms are entirely disconnected from
physical systems[21]. When expansion resources are
dynamically created at runtime and subsequently disposed of
when no longer required, many applications no longer have
access to a record of a physical device to logical resource
mapping[21]. On the other hand, needs of critical
infrastructure and emerging markets of critical IoT devices
are more and more dependent on a secure mapping between
physical to logical. Strong application dependencies on
physical to logical connection also arise in uses where devices
are embedded into human bodies which perform vital
operations[22] or many other life/safety-critical applications.
3.3.1 IOT Identification and Tracking Solutions
Solutions for traceability are another commonly
recognized second generation use case for blockchain. To
connect the physical IOT to virtual actions, we can combine
the features of blockchain traceability with techniques and
physical identification sequences to enable a physical-to-
virtual connection.
The idea of proof of origin and a unique identification for
computing devices has been a topic of discussion for many
years[23]. The Trusted Computing Group was started to
verify secure operations of the base boot code on each
personal computer, but when speculation grew that it may be
used to track all online actions, the resulting negative public
opinion restricted commercial growth[24]. With the needs for
IOT identity, there is a resurgence in the value for some
computing devices to be linked closely to data they produce.
Blockchain offers capabilities to coordinate myriad
operations done over an indefinite amount of time by large
numbers of devices. This approach did not exist when initial
designs were conceived for trusted computing[23].
Combining blockchain properties for immutability of past
actions with features of devices which cryptographically
respond uniquely to challenges provides more tools to
connect physical to virtual.
Provably unclonable chips (PUC) which provide unique
responses for each subsequent identification sequence in
conjunction with blockchain provides a track record of how a
device respond to challenges[25]. Protected memory devices
implementing non-interactive zero-knowledge proofs could
respond predictably to entirely unique challenge-response
randomized input sequences[13]. Using these and other
capabilities Proof Of Origin (POO) for each data item
produced by the device could accompany the data from the
IOT device. In the past limitations to such an individualized
sequencing was the inability to manage and maintain an
accurate data repository to support the backend operational
requirements of storing and verifying large numbers of
challenge-to-response combinations.
With blockchain large numbers of challenge-to-
responses are manageable which provides the ability to record
of how the NIZK or PUC identification components functions
over time. Verification of previous proofs as part of current
operations could be incorporated as well, which would create
an ability to identify if and when an entity became
compromised. Figure 5 shows a simplified flow for creation
of TVL and TRF transaction where an entity or system is
authenticated and the user signs the transaction adding non-
repudiation of the transaction.
Figure 5: Randomizing Validation and Proof-of-Origin
7
The ability to encrypt digital content during a particular
time period and then change the encryption key and re-
encrypt to support a different configuration for a different
period has value in relation to the identification. Thus, the
concept of Suppression Trust (TSP) transactions within a
blockchain can be used in solutions to strengthen
identification. With proof of origin related to device identity,
individualized privacy controls such as encryption would also
be relatable to identity.
Possibilities for TSP use in our new designs would
integrated with existing cryptographic techniques such as
cipher block chaining (CBC)[26]. In order to break down
privacy controls on data to align with segments of time. TSP
transactions containing Initialization Vectors (IV) for a
particular encryption sequence can be encoded into a
blockchain block, see figure 6. Adding IV or even
intermediate values within CBC sequences. Our novel
approach suggest that we could change intermediate
sequences within CBC in order to related to time but also if
changed on a reoccurring basis provides digital rights
management capabilities for encrypted streams. For example,
verification codes inserted used on a sequential time interval
restrict continued use of a particular encrypted stream without
a new credential sequence.
We foresee many capabilities for individual privacy
using these capabilities for time-related privacy controls. The
TSP transactions can take on many forms, but its primary
functionality would be to enable privacy controls with a
relationship to a particular interval of time.
For the identification of physical to virtual, this will be
an especially useful tool. Data production is part of everyday
life for most people and as the adoption of IOT devices grows
the relation of the data to POO and time of creation becomes
more and more important. The growth of big data analytics
has shown a large value with the aggregation of data but at the
same time growth adds difficulty in the correlation of
individual identifying capability to the operations[8].
Changes to the encryption properties of IOT data could
foreseeably change as often as for each time a new connection
is made to another device. Users may also choose to roll
encryption from one sequence (or key) to another at intervals
relating to the sensitivity of operations which they are
performing at any given time. It is foreseeable in the future
that users will learn the connection between changing keys
and a renewed privacy configuration and will do so at the
onset of any communications where they feel the need to have
positive verification of secure communications. In this case,
the management of changes to privacy sequence (or key)
would be time-dependent and thus TSP transactions would
document and maintain the relationship of data-to-key for a
given timeframe.
Rekeying an IOT or Computer system on a regular basis
can be done by several methods which could enable rapid and
frequent updates. Key derivation is defined by NIST as “a
method of deriving keying material from a pre-shared key and
possibly other information. See SP 800-108.6[12]”. Deriving
keys, which is done on a regular basis, or designing key
generation into an IOT capability can be supported with
blockchain TSP transactions. A limitation to deriving
cryptographic keys often is the management of various keys
related to their time of use. Blockchain TSP transactions added
for each key derivation and subsequent change gives the time-
related record of which key is valid for a given timeframe.
As displayed in figure 7, Key rolling functionality can be
based on simple (or more complex) operations and added
security posture change capability which can be used by the
IOT users. New key sequences, placed in a blockchain block
as a reference to verification of them or how they were created
without disclosing the key itself. Users could decide when and
for what reason they changed encryption sequences and roll
from the current key to the next committing a TSP transaction
into the blockchain for each change. References to many TSP
transactions over time provides a picture of strength and
reliability or risk on IOT entities or data items.
Deprivation Trust TDP, a category which we have not
addressed in previous sections, has a great deal of value
pertaining to identification. Since a physical IOT device can
be linked closely to an individual, identification of adverse,
Figure 7: Encryption Key Rolling and Suppression
Figure 6: Suppression and Cipher Chaining
8
incidental, or even intentionally malicious behavior, TDP has
value in deterring bad behavior. Even if an IOT device is not
identifiable to an individual, since it could be recognized
rapidly if it was previously related to high risk or adverse
incident, the traceability TDP from deters malicious activity.
While we contemplate a new environment where
traceability of IOT physical devices is a reality, many people
ask, does this create problems for the privacy of individuals?
The implementation of blockchain though has some balancing
capabilities which we have already seen. As we now have
eight-plus years of operational examples in cryptocurrency
we can turn to this example for insights when evaluating our
next global problem and solution[27].
3.4 The problem of Visibility vs. Privacy of
Individuals
Blockchains have the unique ability to balance the
privacy of data in order to keep a confidential nature of
actions separated from the identification of actors. Much like
an anonymous bank account represented by long strings of
digits only, the use of public/private keys to represent
accounts hides the user, [2], [27], but unlike an account
number allows public verification of authorized usage.
Worldwide operations of current cryptocurrency chains show
tracking of an individual to be difficult; a fact relied upon by
early adopters that use bitcoin for its anonymous features[28].
With cryptocurrency blockchains, it was an objective to
keep all of the contents of the blocks entirely public, without
storing personal information about transactions. However, as
we progress toward more advanced use cases for blockchain,
balancing visibility and privacy is often better served by
maintaining a minimal portion of data within the blockchain,
while having a separate data storage repository configuration,
coupled by a linking capability. Blockchain TVL transactions
can provide user interaction with offline data, TSP transactions
can identify privacy encoding, and TRL transactions could
validate the accurateness or the integrity of locations, users or
data content.
In order to balance visibility and privacy on a larger scale
than offered by Bitcoin’s random appearing public keys, we
add another concept to strengthen the blockchain
implementation. Blockchain technology is well suited to
support the additions of signatures, references, URI’s, and/or
verification data. However, in order to maintain the full
versions of data signed, referenced, or verified privately the
system requires offline storage separate from the public
blockchain, see figure 8. Such a paired use of blockchain to
offline storage capability supports many new use cases for the
control, organization and even, monetization of private data
not contained within the blockchain itself.
Offline data capability has become more of a necessity as
we see the growth of current public cryptocurrency chains.
The growth of a chain is proportion to the number of
transactions; on popular cryptocurrency chains users are
growing at a rate which has brought many people to believe
current models will not be sustainable indefinitely[29]. At the
same time, the value incentive to store and maintain a
distributed ledger for a chain such as bitcoin is losing its
allure[2].
Value propositions for storage of both the chain contents
and offline data must match the needs of the organization
providing the storage. As offline data is restricted in access,
we can implement a transaction-based privacy control.
Applications can not only provide private data on a per-
instance case but also identify who accessed then with each
instance and encode privacy controls (unique encryption) on
that individual instance of data. Further restrictions could
permit access only for a predetermined span of time.
With the ability to record non-reputable transactions that
are forensically verifiable, trust transactions also become a
legal tool. Because of this, it is of upmost importance that the
ability to determine what is maintained public vs. private is
adaptable and can be augmented as legal reviews, laws, or
legal precedence changes. Governing bodies that govern the
blockchain must be neutral and independent of government or
special interest control.
3.5 Linking Non-Deterministic to Deterministic
Problem
The problem of linking Non-Deterministic physical-
world events to deterministic computer transactions is
experienced industry-wide and may be best described as a
sequencing problem. Thought sequence and timing are not
highly studied in relationship to cybersecurity; it is probably
one of the larger causes for the stalemate in global adoption
of cybersecurity techniques for cyber-physical systems. The
divide of deterministic and non-deterministic timed events is
a defining difference between human-to-human and machine-
to-machine operations and communication[30], [31]. When a
human is involved with any process of operation, expectations
for performing transactions follow the nature of humans.
Humans have a large tolerance for sequencing inconsistencies
and large variances in the timing of operations. In fact, the
multitasking nature of humans depends on an asynchronous
nature to events which are set into action and then queued up
when complete. Humans often use a sequencing strategy of
delaying actions, which they then addressed later when they
return to tasks to continue workflow.
Figure 8: Offline Privacy Controls
9
In contrast, machine to machine workflow processes are
designed around predictable times of operations and delay.
Thus, each sequential operation requires knowing when one
completes and the next begins, based on a timing that is
measurable and deterministic [30]. Our human-to-human
operations have an unpredictable number of retries built into
operational logic, and then enact queuing of events after what
would be billions of machine-to-machine operations; often
the latency of communications becomes problematic[32]. In
addition, sensing of the physical world events is unpredictable
and in cyber-physical systems where machine-to-machine
operations control electro-mechanical physical world
equipment, the unpredictable non-deterministic paradigm can
cause accidents and unsafe conditions. For systems such as
electric power grid, traffic safety, or industrial automation,
such timing problems have caused loss of life[33].
3.5.1 Cybersecurity Controls Linking People,
Systems, and Virtual Actions
The first two global problems linking virtual components
and the third problem of Identification focused on linking
physical real world to virtual or logical. Visibility vs. Privacy
solutions use a blockchain, controlling by design which
portions of both real and physical are visible publicly and to
which we only provided a reference or opaque verification.
Blockchain technology is a tool for containment of any
digital or virtual item we can imagine. With proper design,
blockchains can link and forensically verify any
predetermined components. The power of forensic
traceability lies in the combination of the action and
verification of the time of the transactions. The linking of
tightly timed or deterministic transactions to random timed or
non-deterministic is of exceptional value in our digital age.
The ability to forensically identify the timing/sequence of
transactions builds on top the accountability and identification
as well but offer extended uses which append variations or
attributes to those types of transactions. In the solution of
global problem, the timestamp may become the most valuable
portion of each trust transaction. By including timestamps in
the design of each of our five categories of trust we gain a
partial solution to this global technological era problem.
Relating the data from distributed operations of people,
systems, or organizations to the exact time when they
performed the action, maintains a sequencing capability to
connect them. Transactions from humans on an asynchronous
or non-deterministic cadence, and those from a machine that
occur on synchronous, deterministic interval can be entered
into the chain in relation to the time of occurrence.
In instances where a synchronous machine operation is
required to wait for completion of a non-deterministic
operation, it can poll the blockchain in order to coordinate
further sequencing of operations. When human workflow
applications require interaction with sequence-oriented
operations or integration with other non-deterministic human
operations, they can use blockchain operations to implement
a transaction sequencing capability. Such applications could
accommodate coordination with many other non-
deterministic actors providing record sequencing capability.
4 Conclusion
As with any new human advancement, new productivity
gained by the technology era has also come with a new set of
challenges. Large numbers of computer and virtual actions
have outgrown the ability for humans to accuracy assess trust
in online environments. New blockchain-based tools exist
that can automate and manage trust in the virtual world. In
this paper, we examined the cryptographic tools and actions
that implement forensically verifiable operations to support
this need for trust.
In our novel approach to organizing and categorizing
trust in relation to these existing cryptographic tools, we have
identified trust categories which are directly implementable.
The relationships of instances of a cyber security or privacy
operations to a trust transaction provide developers with new
tools to manage trust on the internet. Our novel approach to
defining global problems and then linking relationships to
categories of trust usable within a blockchain, provids
implementable cryptographic operations which bring
workable solutions.
The first two problems of accountability and traceability
have clear solutions using blockchains which provide
immediate beneficial properties. The next problem explored
starts to provide some insight into globally unanswered
problems experienced by our current migration to IOT and
cloud. Our novel approach incorporates Blockchains strength
for tracking in conjunctions with physical device unique
identification to enable exceptional prospect of verification of
IOT devices in cyber-physical systems.
The fourth and fifth problems exists as a combined factor
of people and networked devices. Blockchain also offers a
capability to identify transactions, but also to balance the
visibility of those transactions while providing privacy by
obscuring the individual human actors or sensitive data. Our
novel approach to combining offline data with blockchain
platform by design gives a granular tool for the balancing of
visibility and privacy. Lastly the new direction in combination
of deterministic and non-deterministic operations foreseeably
could provide the next generation of cybersecurity capability
by linking human-timed transactions with machine-to-
machine communications. Blockchains built on the proposed
designs offer the ability to connect deterministic and non-
deterministic cryptographic events in a single forensic chain
of trust.
Capabilities offered by blockchain in many cases are still
theoretical, however the new approaches outlined in this
publication begin to connect solutions for real-life use cases.
This connection of unsolved problems to implementable trust
features of blockchain technology provides tools for creation
of a framework that will be applicable to many more industry
problems, than those listed in this publication.
5 References
[1] R. Mikkelsen, “50 years of computing University of
Pennsylvania marks Feb 14, 1946 as the first day of
10
the information age,” The Globe and Mail, Toronto,
Ont, p. B. 11, 08-Feb-1996.
[2] V. Buterin, “A Next Generation Smart Contract &
Decentralized Application Platform.” Ethereum, 2017.
[3] W. Mougayar, The Business Blockchain, 1st ed. John
Wiley & Sons Inc., 2016.
[4] W. Reijers, F. O’Brolchain, and P. Haynes,
“Governance in Blockchain Technologies & Social
Contract Theories,” Ledger, vol. I, no. 2016, pp. 134–
151, 2016.
[5] K. Lambert, A. Williams, Ginal, and Rankin,
Concerning the Use of Cyber Coding Cryptology for
State Records. 2018.
[6] NIST, “Glossary of Key Information Security Terms.”
NIST, May-2013.
[7] M. Williams, “In whom we trust: Group membership
as an effective context for trust development,” Acad.
Manag. Acad. Maagement Rev., vol. 26, no. 3, pp.
377–396, Jul. 2001.
[8] B. Schneier, Data and Goliath, First. W.W. Norton &
Company, 2015.
[9] United States Code, “Title 44 Public Printing and
Documents.” U.S. Government Printing Office, 2008.
[10] NERC, “Guidance for Secure Interactive Remote
Access.” North American Electric Reliability
Company, Jul-2011.
[11] NIST, “Computer Security Resource Center,”
Computer Security Resource Center. 04-Aug-2000.
[12] E. Barker and W. C. Barker, “Recommendations for
Key Management.” NIST, Apr-2018.
[13] C. S. Jutla and A. Roy, “Shorter Quasi-Adaptive
NIZK Proofs for Linear Subspaces,” Cryptol. -
ASIACRYPT 2013 ASIACRYPT 2013, vol. 8269, 2013.
[14] N. Koshizuka and K. Sakamura, “Ubiquitous ID:
Standards for Ubiquitous Computing and the Internet
of Things,” IEEE Pervasive Comput., vol. 9, no. 4, pp.
98–101, Sep. 2010.
[15] D. Galvin, “IBM and Walmart: Blockchain for Food
Safety.” IBM Corporation, 2017.
[16] S. Fujimura, H. Watanabe, T. Nakadaira, T. Yamada,
A. Akutsu, and J. Kishigami, “A concept for a
decentralized rights management system based on
blockchain,” IEEE 5th Int. Conf. Consum. Electron.
Berl., vol. 978-1-4799–8748, no. 1, 2015.
[17] S. Menan and S. Sarkar, “Privacy and Big Data:
Scalable Approaches to Sanitize Larger Transactional
Databases for Sharing,” MIS Q., vol. 40, no. 4, pp.
963–981, Dec. 2016.
[18] J. E. Vascellaro, “Apple to Restrict Apps Access to
Macs,” Wall Street Journal Asia, Hong Kong, p. 14,
10-Feb-2012.
[19] W. Shang, Z. Want, A. Afanasyev, J. Burke, and L.
Zhang, “Breaking out of the Cloud: Local Trust
Management and Rendezvous in Named Data
Networking of Things,” Proc. 2nd ACMIEEE Int.
Conf. Internet--Things Des. Implement., vol. 978-1-
4503-4966–6/17/04, p. 11, Apr. 2917.
[20] D. Yu and S. L. Fang, “Research of multilevel security
network based on mobile IPv6.,” Appl. Mech. Mater.,
vol. 2014, no. 556–562, pp. 6019–6022, May 2014.
[21] S. Bhardwaj, L. Jain, and S. Jain, “Cloud Computing:
A Study of Infrastructure as a Service (IAAS),” Int. J.
Eng. Inf. Technol., vol. 2, no. 1, pp. 60–63, 2010.
[22] D. M. Barnes, “Cybersecurity and medical devices.”
Utica College, 2016.
[23] J. Erickson, “FAIR USE, DRM, AND TRUSTED
COMPUTING.,” Commun. ACM, vol. 46, no. 4, pp.
34–39, Apr. 2003.
[24] J. Papoza, “Don’t trust trusted computing,” eWeek, p.
45, 21-Nov-2005.
[25] H. Helena, S. Geert-Jan, and T. Pim, “Hardware
Intrinsic Security from Physically Unclonable
Functions,” Inf. Secur. Cryptogr. Book Ser. ISC, vol.
Towards Hardware-Intrinsic Security, 2010.
[26] M. Bellare, J. Kilian, and P. Rogaway, “The Security
of the Cipher Block Chaining Message Authentication
Code,” J. Comput. Syst. Sci., vol. 61, pp. 362–399,
Sep. 2000.
[27] S. Nakamoto, “Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic
Cash System.” Satoshi Nakamoto, 31-Oct-2008.
[28] M. Malte, B. Domonic, and B. Rainer, “An inquiry
into money laundering tools in the Bitcoin
ecosystem,” ECrimer Res. Summit, vol. 2013, no. Sep
17-18, Apr. 2014.
[29] K. K. Eleftherious, J. Philipp, G. Nicolas, K. Ismail,
G. Linus, and F. Bryan, “Enhancing Bitcoin Security
and Performance with Strong Consistency via
Collective Signing,” USENIX Assoc., vol. 25th
USENIX Security Symposium, no. 25th, pp. 280–296,
Aug. 2016.
[30] S. A. Crosby, D. S. Wallach, and R. H. Riedi,
“Opportunities and Limits of Remote Timing
Attacks,” ACM Trans. Inf. Secur. Syst., vol. 12, no. 3,
p. 29, Jan. 2009.
[31] K. Popovici and P. Mosterman J., Real-Time
Simulation Technologies: Principles, Methodologies,
and Applications, 1st ed., vol. 1. Boca Raton, FL
33487-2742: CRC Press, 2016.
[32] D. Sidler, Z. Istvan, and G. Alonso, “Low-Latency
TCP/IP Stack for Data Center Applications,” 26th Int.
Conf. Field Program. Log. Appl., vol. 2016-01–01,
pp. 1–4, Jan. 2016.
[33] E. Stojiljkovic, M. Grozdanovic, and P. Stojilijkovic,
“Human error assessment in the electric power
company of Servia,” Electron. Assoc. Electr. Energy
Distrib., vol. 41, no. 2012, pp. 3207–3212, 2012.
